see guys this is why i need the quicktime aac encoder
http://www.rjamorim.com/test/aac128v2/plot12z.png
look at how much better it is then faac
how do i install belkin f5d7001 on ubuntu
i had like 400 megs in there ... how the kfcu is one supposed to know where to look for files moved to thrash? cause its not visible from the desktop or so, is it?
hello, i need some help with ubuntu
i just installed it to a powermac and I am getting an error message saying that the xserver cant start
sybariten: I'd have thought so; I don't use gnome
how do i install belkin f5d7001 on ubuntu
!amarok
I guess amarok is a music player for Linux and Unix with an intuitive interface. See http://amarok.kde.org ; amaroK's features: http://amarok.kde.org/content/view/51/1/
amphi: neither would i... if i was sure i wouldnt lose stuff by changing
how do i install belkin f5d7001 on ubuntu
sybariten: lose stuff?
Isn't the "thrash can" on the bootom right? next to the 4 desktop screen selectors.
!bash
For a list of basic commands, see https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicCommands
!init
Init is how Ubuntu starts up misc. system services at boot time.  To control the services, please install the package "BUM" from "Universe" Repository
amphi: you know ... uh .. the terminal here in gnome has tabs, and it has choices to change char emulation instantly. could i do that under xfce, etc etc
loose stuff like that
!Aac
methinks aac is read http://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats for information about aac support
night all! // jo ejt!
Yep. I was just about to mention that I_Love_DRM.
how do i install belkin f5d7001 on ubuntu
sybariten: guess so; just use gnome-terminal I suppose; I use mrxvt for tabbed xterms
I_Love_DRM: you have a thrashcan there ?
i just installed ubuntu to a powermac and I am getting an error message saying that the xserver cant start
can anyone help me out?
I do too.  it looks like a calculator on my screen, but it's a trash can.
How do I correct 'dpkg-deb: subprocess paste killed by signal (Broken pipe)' ?
amphi: but i couldnt use gnome-terminal under antyhing but gnome could i
darwin188: you need to mess with sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg I guess
hey folks, newcommer here
sybariten: why not?
I'm trying to install glibc
and then?
how do i install belkin f5d7001 on ubuntu
hola
sybariten: AFAIK it's a standalone prog (albeit with a lot of shared lib deps probably)
alguien que sepa de linux que me ayude
"rpm -U webmin-1.260-1.noarch.rpm" - this command doesnt seem to work for me, any ideas of how to use a. rpm file?
Claudia, hablas ingles?
I need to install it
ompaul: yes i like the new edubuntu background too - although it's a kinda cold and is missing New Zealand (bug reported) :)
is there a way to lower my screen resolution, Ubuntu loaded tops and is hard on my eyes
no
!tell CLAUDIA about es
!es
Hispanohablantes: Por favor usen #ubuntu-es, #kubuntu-es o #edubuntu-es, alli obtendran mas ayuda.
Old: ubuntu is debian not redhat
amphi: i thought gnome stuff required gnome as the window manager (althouih its prolly bigger than just a window manager today) to run, just as all K-programs (Kdevelop an all) would require KDE ... etc
bimberi, :-)
!rpm
methinks rpm is the Redhat Package Management file. Very similar to Debian's DEB files, but require alien to install. ask me about !alien
hola CLAUDIA
Old: ubuntu uses .debs not .rpms
ooh
hola nelisa
!alien
somebody said alien was a program to convert RPMs to DEBs. Its use is discouraged, as it could create serious problems. Website: http://www.kitenet.net/programs/alien/
CLAUDIA: #ubuntu-es
Is there a way to use .rpms, like renaming it or something?
Amin: alien isnt really recommended to use
sybariten: you can run kde progs without kde (you still need the libs), same for gnome; I run gnome progs like gthumb here without gnome
Old: find a deb
Old, there's "alien", but you should look for a deb first
gracias
how do you add backports to dapper? like so i can get lame debs?
CLAUDIA: de nada
gnomefreak i cant tbh, this guide is old, and i bet the file isnt on google anymore
I'll look
Old: what is the app?
sabes espaol
aj_, there won't be any backports for Dapper yet - development of the next version hasnt' started yet
ok next question ...  if i compile something and then do make install in order to get it in place.... (in this case irssi) .. and i already had that tool installed via apt-get ... will make be able to "overwrite" my old version, and will the apt-system know that i got a new version of the irc client??
!es
Hispanohablantes: Por favor usen #ubuntu-es, #kubuntu-es o #edubuntu-es, alli obtendran mas ayuda.
amphi
CLAUDIA: join #ubuntu-es
amphi: ok didnt know that
are there any good wiki pages for setting up software mixing of sound?
how to lower the res
I can't get my sdl games & teamspeak to play nice
so you can't get lame or mythtv in a repo?
gnomefreak, it's webmin, for administrating your counter-strike servers (game servers)
http://mirrors.redwoodvirtual.com/mirrors/www.webmin.com/download.html
aj_: did you enable universe and multiverse
yes
Can i use any of those?
!webmin
See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WebminWithoutARootAccount for webmin instructions for Ubuntu. Webmin runs on https://localhost:10000 - As of Ubuntu 6.06, webmin is REMOVED from Ubuntu and will no longer be supported
how do i go about finding out about this 'mmsh://a814.l1977144512.c19771.g.lm.akamaistream.net/D/814/19771/v0001/reflector:44512?MSWMExt=.asf'.
sybariten: some of the integration stuff may not work (those DEs must be for _something_ ;), but the individual profs should work
dis, thats a windows media player link :p
thanks gnomefreak, i'll just take a peak
i think
Yep. That's what it is Lurk3rX
hi all
i need help with vnc server, anyone up for that?
hey!!!
anyone have open-xchange working in a ubuntu box?
ok but when i installed easyubuntu last night the media played today it doesnt
Can anyone helpme with this: "W: No foi possvel checar a lista de pacotes fonte http://br.archive.ubuntu.com breezy-backports/universe Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/br.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_breezy-backports_universe_binary-i386_Packages) - stat (2 Arquivo ou diretrio no encontrado)"
nelisa, I'll look into the resolutions right now.
MENDIGO: #ubuntu-br
Sorry for the delay.
amphi: ok thanks man
thanks AlwaysIsey
MENDIGO, looks like you've gor a missing package
got*
nelisa, how can i fix this?
capitalization error
MENDIGO: sudo apt-get update perhaps
MENDIGO, can you reach those pages in your browser?
MENDIGO, are you behind proxy?
=== crowley1027 is now known as ^_^
Screen Resolutions, and change it there.
mkdir /var/lib/apt/lists/br.archive.ubuntu.com_ubuntu_dists_breezy-backports_universe_binary-i386_Packages would help?
hehe
Lmao
oops multiverse wan't enabled i thought it was but i did it by hand
AlwaysIcey, there's only a resolution there, that's way to high for my miopia
i can't get vnc server to work properly, again, anyone interested in helping me?
AlwaysIcey, how to get more res enabled?
MENDIGO: no
One more second nelisa, I'll look at mine.
coucho, I've dealed with VNC back in my win days
if I get a workable ress I would do better
nelisa: i'm still in those XD
AlwaysIcey, thanks
nelisa, Try clicking on the arrows next to the resolution.  Tell me if any more options are there.
this name is taken :(
AlwaysIcey, negative
Webmin is written entirely in Perl. Please enter the full path to the
Perl 5 interpreter on your system.
Full path to perl (default /usr/bin/perl):
Anyone ?
anyone know why my mplayer always gives me the error "New_Face failed. Maybe the font path is wrong. Please supply the text font file (~/.mplayer/subfont.ttf)."
http://arstechnica.com/journals/microsoft.ars/2006/5/21/4048 - bye bye Ballmer :)
How about the refresh rate, what options are there?
RandolphCarter: he's going somewhere?
mikebot: what does google say ?
amphi: gotham prison
AlwaysIcey, 60 Hx only
mikebot: did you install the mplayer-fonts package?
gnomefreak, read above. Could you help me perhaps?
sybariten, RandolphCarter not sure
nice job btw
AlwaysIcey, Resolution 1280x1024
nelisa: maybe you're able to help me out?
Old: that should be the path iirc
Is it an older computer nelisa?
RandolphCarter: ah, the purges begin ;)
gnomefreak, what's the exact path (Im new to ubuntu)
it's a laptop an HP Pavilion N5495
Old: i dont do much with perl except use it in scripts
nelisa, no, i was going to update to Dapper Drake but then when i saw that would have to download 500mb I choose to Cancel
hi olks
Old: /usr/bin/perl
RandolphCarter, how do i do that?
I just installed the 686 optimized kernel for Ubuntu, and now mplayer and xmms don't run. if I launch them from the command line, it just says "segmentation fault". I recompiled mplayer, but it still says the same error. any ideas? I tried googling, and maybe the nvidia X driver is related to this problem (I had a bit of a problem getting X to work with the nvidia driver when I installed the kernel, but it eventually worked)
hallo
cheers gnomefreak
mikebot: sudo aptitude install mplayer-fonts
RandolphCarter, thanks
I'm not sure then nelisa.  I haven't tried this on a laptop, so I'm not too sure how what resolution options you should have.
nelisa, I did a backup of the sources.list then i replace it with the backup and did a apt-get update
thanks, It's installing now gnomefreak.
hi , im on a live cd how can i partitionate my HDD
what software i need
Nintendud: you need to install the linux-686 package
ubuntu breezy live cd
RandolphCarter: I did
;p
AlwaysIcey, how do I poll my hardware for more res options?
hmm, so it can't be missing the nvidia kmod :(
whois guenni
oh wait
RandolphCarter: looks like I didn't. wtf o_O
join #ubuntu-laptop
i've got ubuntu running at 1280x800 on an acer 3023 with an ati card
I'll check this out, thanks
Qtparted
wooh
anyone here using irssi? please raise a hand
Nintendud: :P np's
and<
anyone here know a bit about raid? specifically raid0
RandolphCarter: would I have to restart? they still segmentation fault
Device Manager.
Nintendud: yup, you'd need to restart
ruchbah: can you see if you can do /set term_char ?
thought so
or at least, restart X
has anyone used automatix?
hmm, probably best to reboot
dell500: depends on what you wanna know
alright
brb
sybariten: yeah
there's some messages about loading restricted modules at startup :) gl
alright, thanks
if I'm not back, all is well
amphi: yes you run it or yes you can do /set blabla ?
hello all
need some help
termchar even
:(
coucho, well i have a raid0 array... i made the array with the onboard software (prog that came on the mobo) and i am using it in linux (kubuntu 5.10)
hello can anyone help me????????????
dell500: and what's the problem?
coucho, what I would like to do is get another large SATA and just back everything up on it, then use the 2 other sata's for OS's
sybariten: yes I use it ;)
!helpme
If you do not actually ask a question, we cannot actually help you. :)
sybariten: "Irssi: Unknown setting term_char" - what's that supposed to do?
I was just wondering if it's possible to get a new mobo that has more than 2 satas to hook it up so the transfer of 200gb of data to be copied will be faster
i want to configure dns server on the Ubuntu Machine can anyone teach me how can i do it??
dell500: if you've got a third drive, maybe raid4?
AlwaysIcey, what I'm looking for??
dell500: why wouldn't it be possible?
amphi: solve my problems  :)
amphi: according to the bitches in my regular swedish chan
sybariten: WAYTTD?
sybariten doesn't seem to do anything.  This is the first time I've used irssi.  Just trying it out
dell500: and sure, you can always get a PCI SATA-2 card and use linux's software mirroring too
coucho, i've only got 2 SATA ports for raid
anyone there?
amphi: what does that abbreviation mean ?
it's almost as fast, and you can just put the drives in another machine without it breaking horribly
nelisa, in Device Manager, you'll be looking for the Display Adapter or something similar to that.
dell500: i understand, but why would it not be possible for you to get a new mobo that supports raid on more than 2 sata ports?
ruchbah: ok thanks ... hmmm but did you get an error or not? try a termchar that doesnt exist, like /set term_char banana
what are you trying to do?"
RandolphCarter, my "vision" is to get all the data stored on one SATA drive, then enclose it, use it as USB, then use the RAID0 array (2 120 SATAs) to split up and use for OS
i just installed ubuntu to a powermac and I am getting an error message saying that the xserver cant start
coucho, i was wondering if it might destroy the raid array i have now and i would lose all my music and stuff... that wouldn't be good
varunvarde2007, http://help.ubuntu.com/6.06/ubuntu/serverguide/en_GB/dns.html
can anyone help me out?
dell500: ah like that
thanks checking it out in a second
dell500: you won't be able to move the drives to a new mobo
dell500: super, mega, definitely not
ok
lol
has anyone had problems using automatix?  specifically firefox
and this is the problem with hardware RAID :)
amphi: ok, i'm trying to set IRSSI to get the character "emulation" (or whatever you call it) ISO-8859-1 ... aka "western"
sybariten .. nope.  No error.
(unless they're not in a RAID atm)
varunvarde2007, you will also need to read that howto at the bottom its far too much to do in irc
greg_: dont use it
ruchbah: ok, then it works for you ... dang
RandolphCarter and coucho, I guess I could just get an enclosure and copy via USB... but 200gb over usb scares me
dell500: i would advise you to get the disk, and get norton ghost or something to create an image and put that on your new hd
why not?
sybariten: no idea about that I'm afraid
!automatix
automatix is, like, totally, unsafe, it overwrites configuration files, and does things like "echo -e 'y\nY\n'" that are considered risky. Please do not use it. There are alternative applications, such as !easyubuntu.
^^^ greg_
this is giving me an anurisum
dell500: then just undo the array and reinstall everything
dell500: wouldn't be so bad, just leave it going overnight, probably take 3-4 hours?
is there a way to check my hard drive. to analyse it for bad sectors etc... it's an external hdd on fat32
coucho, u can do that?
greg_, if you use it, and you break your machine you will reinstall
anyone know how to make a .deb package of firefox 1.5 from source?
how can i know what ports i have open?
phace: badblocks
!ff1.5
You can use firefox 1.5 by following this wiki page https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FirefoxNewVersion
vlad: ^^^
gnomefreak, thanks
vlad: ywe
-e
yeah it did break my machine
dell500: of course, but everything that was on the array will be gone (or at least not accessible)
Does anyone know the reason why I get this message when I start Synaptic?  "W: Couldn't stat source package list cdrom://Ubuntu 5.10 _Breezy Badger_ - Release i386 (20051012) breezy/main Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/Ubuntu%205.10%20%5fBreezy%20Badger%5f%20-%20Release%20i386%20(20051012)_dists_breezy_main_binary-i386_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
W: Couldn't stat source package list cdrom://Ubuntu 5.10 _Breezy Badger_ - Release i386 (20051012) breezy/restricted Packages (/var/lib/apt/lists/Ubuntu%205.10%20%5fBreezy%20Badger%5f%20-%20Release%20i386%20(20051012)_dists_breezy_restricted_binary-i386_Packages) - stat (2 No such file or directory)
Id"
Rash, try netstat -an or netstat --help for options
i lost firefox
coucho, but that's pretty much a complete backup of it all? how safe is it?
leojstewart, because you don't have your CD in
AlwaysIcey, only video related thing is 82830 CGC
dell500: i don't think you have to worry about it, unless you get a crappy image maker
ghost's very safe, just do an integrity check afterwards
exactly
I'm not sure what to tell you then nelisa.  Have you tried in the #ubuntu-laptop room?
leojstewart, it should run fine anyway, though
is there a good one for ubuntu?
Of course the forums go down right before
one that doesn't crash? :)
I make a post.
Pyro: it does. Thank you. I was just wondering
dell500: most of those work outside an OS
dell500: ghost does anyway
I wasn't doing it before... I wonder why it is now.
ohhhh
gotcha
dell500: tar | bzip is farely safe and doesn't crash :)
AlwaysIcey, they sent me back to #ubuntu
*fairly
RandolphCarter, I've had some problems with tar'ing things
idk why
Nelisa, You need to find a way to make the equivalent of a conference call it would seem.
leojstewart, if you don't want to see that error, you can comment out the line from /etc/apt/sources.lst that checks the CD
dell500: i would get ghost, you can boot up and just copy your entire hd array to your new disk
But seriously, I hope you get help.
can i open terminals so they're already set to the folder i want them to be in?
Pyro: sorry, but I'm a linux-newbie.  Could you tell me exactly how to do this?
ghost only works with ext2/ext3 atm though (don't think it works with reiser)
dell500: i would probably allocate that disk first
The only other place I could recommend is maybe the accessibility chat room.  Otherwise, I'll leave it up to someone else here, since I haven't configured Devices manually or used a laptop with Ubuntu.
dell500: which fs do you use?
:(
didn't work
still segmentation faults
epositories
Nintendud: erk :/
Hey, I have a little question about getting new hardware working in an existing ubuntu breezy installation, I was hoping someone here could help?
then uncheck the "CD disk with Ubuntu..."
dbcalo , How do you define the ones you want them to be in? Do you want to pick them from nautilus or do you want the terminal to have a different default or something else?
!tell jlunder about ask
RandolphCarter: then again, I probably should have watched that apt-get more carefully; since it didn't have any dependencies to install, so I think everything in that respect was up to date
when i try and shut down ubuntu on my laptop it just goes blank screen and nothing happens, none of the diagnostic messages "shutting down root file system" or anything, just blank screen, never powers down either.  What do you guys think is wrong?
php5 and gd lib support, what do I have to do to ensure that  php is compiled with GD lib support/?
since apt-get install linux-686 only downloaded a 22.4KB file ;p
hi, how can i install LILO from a live cd , i just broke grub and ill install lilo to replace it
:(
anyone got any ideas of how to remove the other modules from webmin ?
man, I can't live without mplayer
http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/installation/grub#restauration doing that doesnt work
eugman, i was hoping i could open them up with nautilus. i remember i used to be able to do such a thing but have since forgotten how to do so.
xmms I don't care much about, unless I want to spam music in IRC
Nintendud: heh
HellDragon: there are plenty of other GRUB tutorials/HOWTOs...
what's the disk info command again?
but still
:/
=== Sir_Squirrel is now known as McScruff
can anyone tell why im able to send in AMSN but im not able to send here in IRC
but i want to use lilo
not grub anymore
how do i make my newly installed ubuntu system to work...i keep getting an error message saying that the xserver cant start
it always break
jlunder - what have you got?
every week it breaks
`RaSh: some channels require you to have a registered user name.
i will appreciate a lot the help
HellDragon: you boot every week??
Nintendud: hmm :/ not sure what I can recommend
RandolphCarter: :(
what's the disk info command again?
amphi, every day
its not here.
PyroMithrandir: worked perfectly. Thank you!
HellDragon: strewth
leojstewart, no problem :)
so, can anyone help me with my problem? after installing the 686 optimized kernel, mplayer and xmms only respond with a "segmentation fault" when I run them from the command line
dbcalo, Well I'm guessing you could do something with nautilus scripts and the cd command. Or copy the folder and then open a terminal and type cd and then paste the location into it but that's no fun.
darwin188,  sounds like you need to reconfigure your X server properly. perhaps install the nvidia or ati drivers. depending on your video card.
i dont know what to do now
i can only boot on a live cd
Nintendud: they don't even give you any other output? :/
Right, so I just put a new CD burner in this machine. It shows up in "Computer" but as a regular CD-ROM, and I can't burn anything through the nautilus interface. Is there some magic I need to invoke to get things working?
RandolphCarter: nope
but i dont even have a graphical interface
what's the disk info command again?
nintendud@johnspc:~$ mplayer
Segmentation fault
BAM
ok thanks everyone
same with xmms
maybe  iw ill come tomorrow for help
thakns
how do i reconfigure the the xserver?
bye all
which is why I was so confused
;p
!reconfigure
I don't know, try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, Dr_Willis
hello, i'm having a problem...
Nintendud: you could try running it under gdb and see if that gives you any idea
what's the disk info command again?
!fixres
Help to fix the display resolution is available at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FixVideoResolutionHowto
gdb?
how can i manage the services of the system?
I've never heard of that
lol, I was just thinking that
it's the GNU Debugger
coucho: what disk info command? df ?
eugman, i'll keep looking into. i know last time i used linux there was a drop down menu it was in if you were looking at the contents a folder.
amphi: finally, thanks
i keep getting "error while loading shared libraries: libSDL-1.2.so.0" whenever i run quake4 or, im assuming, any other program thats uses SDL.  I have it installed and linked in ld.so.conf and it still does it?
how do i create a user with the permission like a root user? (ex i want the user: warlock to have full rights like a root user does)
nelisa: I may have a workaround for you, although it's not a solution.
RandolphCarter: alright, I ran gdb, now what do I do? ;p
Old, may I ask why?
Nintendud: run mplayer under gdb, and when it crashes, do bt to get a stack trace, and see if you see anything enlightening
!tell Old about root
Nintendud: are you using proprietary nvidia X drivers, BTW? ;)
Nintendud: you need to run 'gdb mplayer'
Old, your first user - the one you created during install - has full sudo privs - you can give any subsequently created users the same
eugman, im installing webmin, and it needs a account to start my gameservers, i dont want to use the root account
i want to give multiple user read/write access to a dir. ive created a symlink to this dir in each of their home dirs. each user belongs to the same group as the dir. and the perms on the dir were set with 'chmod 1660 dir_name'. why doesnt this work?
then type 'run' and wait for a crash
amphi: if you mean if I'm using "nvidia" instead of "nv", then yes
I only created 'root' there :-(
(press return too)
helldragon .. I've had problems with grub which I solved by booting a live cd then going into the /bin (? /usr/bin ?) of the hd install and running grub-install from there.  There was more to it than that, but that was the gist.  Does that sound like something to explore for your situation?
Old, no it does not - this is ubuntu
Old, read the webmin page on the Ubuntu wiki
sorry, i'm trying to manage the services of ubuntu, how can i do that?
I need nvidia for dual screens
Nintendud: you can do 'file /usr/bin/mplayer' at the gdb prompt, and then 'run'
ompaul, huh?
Old, read the web page that ubotu sent you as a message
Assistive Technology Support, you can enable the magnifier and a few other options.  If nothing else, that will help until you get a solution.
Old: you do not want a web program to have root priviliges, webmin == evil
disabling root account, I dont want that..
oh
but..
Perkin,  could read up on how the SysV init system works.. if thats what you are refering to.. theres also gui front ends to manage what gets started when.
amphi: did it, but uh... weird output o_O
what user should i use then?!
Old, no buts read the web page
Nintendud: that might be what's breaking mplayer and xmms - someone had a similar problem yesterday; you could check if using the nv driver makes the problem go away
k, let me read it
amphi: I need dual monitors though!
:(
and, I believe nvidia is necessary for that, right? :P
Old: what's wrong with teh good old command line to start services?
I had no problem with the 386 kernel and nvidia
Nintendud: *shrug* - trying with nv would at least show if that was the cause of the proble,
it's just this one
:/
hello. can anybody help me getting my network / internet working?
er, problem
alright, I'll try it
hold on, editing xorg config
!commands
is there anyone in here who can help me with vnc server?
from memory, commands is https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicCommands or http://www.linuxcommand.org/
Dr_Willis: i saw that i can manage the main services, like schedules, with something called gnome-services or similar. do you know that?
Knorrie, im new to ubuntu, mind explaining a little more ?
or should I show you gdb's output first, amphi ?
I always use the root account, I dont dare to disable it
maike-maus: you're on irc without a network connection? :P
Perkin,  im old skool and normally twiddle the rc.d links myself.
?
Old: that is not very wise
how do i make my newly installed ubuntu system to work...i keep getting an error message saying that the xserver cant start
amphi: um, gdb says: Program received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
Old, In ubuntu root isn't used. Sudo is used before root level commands.
[Switching to Thread -1228269888 (LWP
0x00000000 in ?? ()
Old: http://www.theregister.co.uk/2006/02/24/bofh_2006_episode_8/
Nintendud: do 'bt' and hit enter
Nintendud: that's the segmentation fault there
0x0000000 = null pointer :)
Old: :P
i keep getting "error while loading shared libraries: libSDL-1.2.so.0" whenever i run quake4 or, im assuming, any other program thats uses SDL.  I have it installed and linked in ld.so.conf and it still does it, anyone know why this is happening?
Nintendud: don't paste in here please
grub-install doesnt work
darwin188: they already told you to reconfigure your xserver
i need to add an option after
Old, please read it again
amphi: longer response; where should I paste this?
wtf with all the spam
!pastebin
it has been said that pastebin is http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
I dont feel like reading a story about some people swearing to each other Knorrie.
Old: bofh is fun
ah, I was wondering what that was
Old: but anyway..
yes but how do i do that
No, Im christian. I dont see those things being 'fun' to me. - sorry.
spam spam spam
Old: heh i'm too
Nintendud: pastebin it and paste the url in here - is there an openGL line near the top of the bt?
Let me read it ompaul
again.
darwin188: did you look through the manual yet?
bofh isn't really swearing :/
i dont have a manual
amphi: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14418
i jsut have a cd
tpektoerjtre9j
amphi: that contains the error messages from run too
Old, read that web page again, running as root is bad, it opens you to attacks in individual clients and gives too much power to applications that should not be trusted
AlwaysIcey, upping the fonts helped loads
Glad to hear that nelisa :D
question 2, whay are there black borders on the screen?
amphi: it says glXChannelRectSyncSGIX ;p
Nintendud: yeah, looks like the same problem - $SMALL_SUM says switching to the nv xorg driver will make this problem go away
Alright ompaul, Like im said. Im new to ubuntu and im trying to run applications as easy as possible, and as smoothly as possible. I'm not much of a googler to look for ways to get around not-using root.
darwin188: help.ubuntu.com / wiki.ubuntu.com
I'm not sure about that at all.  Maybe someone else can answer it.
amphi: but, how will I use dual monitors?
i already tried that not a lot of help
I don't think there is a way to do that under nv
refers to this channel
ok, i'll see in another way
Old: what gameservers are you running.. just curious :)
Nintendud: no idea - perhaps reinstalling the nvidia driver will fix it, dunno; it'd be worth checking that the problem goes away with the nv driver, as I grow weary of saying
alright, I'll check that first
I'll be back
Knorrie, counter-strike servers, I work for alot of companies, and communitys. I know the basic in ubuntu to run game-servers, but im interested im learning more so i can do more with my game-servers.
Old, that page says use sudo, if you want to install something it asks you for your password that is all, no one can brute force your root account that way, I could stay here all night doing one liners, take it as read it is a bad idea, or research it on ww.securityfocus.com
well, brute forcing my password is impossible.
darwin188: k wait a second
Old: sorry to ask, but why do you complain about a sarcastic sysadmin story, and run games where people shoot each other, i dont get it
Old, if the machine is compromised through the game server you will have only yourself to blame for running it as root, and personally I think you should go and do some research to understand what is wrong with running applicaitons as root
thanks
games where people talk and help each other are too much  like IRC :P
Dr_Willis: heh
hi people, what is more secure way to set up an subversion server? Inetd or an script that initialize it on booting time?
i want to give multiple user read/write access to a dir. ive created a symlink to this dir in each of their home dirs. each user belongs to the same group as the dir. and the perms on the dir were set with 'chmod 1660 dir_name'. why doesnt this work?
Dr_Willis, can we quote you on that?
what _is_ a subversion server ?
ompaul,  :P sure.. im allready on tht bash.org site a few times
dgl: i use subversion and apache2 with the subversion-module
Knorrie, I'm sorry to answer your questiong and you wasting my time litterly when im busy trying to sort out webmin. I have a son playing this game, And this is what i litterly do for a living. If you feel that what I'm doing is wrong, can you please me a work, as i cant seem to find any. Didn't really do good in school.
sybariten: cvs..
!info subversion
subversion: (advanced version control system (aka. svn)), section devel, is optional. Version: 1.2.0-1ubuntu1 (breezy), Packaged size: 1255 kB, Installed size: 4728 kB
lumpster: ok ...
Old: no offence
Dont.. please
RandolphCarter and coucho, thanks for the help... btw, if you have a USB hd, you can ghost the image over to the usb from the raid0 array, right?
hm, nothing for a guy who hasnt learned to use cvs yet i guess
Knorrie, man, i will use lighttpd and I know that there is a way to do something like it with lighttpd
dell500: that should be the case
sybariten, a software server for moving data and keeping things in sync
dell500: as long as it's been allocated
dell500: you're welcome btw
Im not having an attitude, but I'm really having it tough finding a work, And i get paid for this. As long as i get paid i do whatever it takes so get money so i can make a living.
ompaul: that much i know
k... is there any other ghost image creators out there besides norton?
dell500: aye, good luck
thanks :)
Old, it's literally...
dell500: nope, ghost's proprietary
Old: your blood pressure... ;)
dell500: I'm not sure how easy it'd be to ghost onto a USB drive
dell500: what he said
hmm... i'll find it somewhere
ompaul: just got the impression that subversion was the "new and fancier" type of CVS, and hence nothing i should look into
grub show me a smiley now...
in the middle of the screen
=== Tedd is now known as grub
i still cant boot on grub
HellDragon, :)
=== grub is now known as Tedd
tahts weird
sybariten, CVS on steroids if you need more :)
- Sorry, just tired and kinda getting mad at this webmin, as I cant seem to get it to work, I'll brb a second, need to read the page ompaul gave me.
Does anyone know how the install-time hardware detection in Breezy works? Or where I could find out more about it?
GUTE NACHT
exit
what i di
RandolphCarter: i think that wouldn't be a problem, as long as it's recognised as a hddf
*hdd
coucho, what's the most stable verson? :)
anyone willing to help with an alsa / AC'97 prob
!hardware
hardware is probably https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport
tried it already
no go
dell500: i think the latest is 8 or something, but i'm not completely sure
coucho: hmm, okay, but afaik it relies on the DOS drivers, and I'm yet to see a DOS USB-HDD driver
Knorrie, I will not have people mentioning plesk in this channel I am trying to recover :-)
Hey everyone.  I'm very new to Ubuntu, and just now got it installed on my computer.  I installed it on a 250GB hard drive.  I gave 10GB to /root 20GB to /home and 1GB to /swap (i know thats a lot).  I ran into problems when trying to format the remaining 219 GB as FAT32, so I just left it as free space.  Now I want to format it so that I can share files between Linux and Windows.  What's the best way to create this partition?
2005 is 9.0, so i think 2006 is 10.
Knorrie: aye, what's so bad about ssh?
can anyone help me :(
ompaul, I created a user, and gave it a password. Is that all?
RandolphCarter: ssh isn't bad, did i say that?
=== subsinker is now known as sub|at|alpopel
jonuk: 219GB is way to big for fat32
jonuk: cfdisk is pretty easy
nope, kinda agreeing and diss'ing webmin for being pointless
!comfort ompaul
I give up. Try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, Knorrie
Old, that is all there is too it, if you need to run a command in a terminal, sudo command and it asks for your password
RandolphCarter: true, but i believe that it works after the usb driver has been loaded
:((((((((((((((
Or should i disable the root usage aswell, If so. Is this user account i created -safe- to use for my gameservers and my webserver, so i can administrate them?
+p isn't the limit for fat around 137 gb?
coucho: yeah, it should
I have two cdrom drives installed, where can I find what they're known as?
HellDragon: you're a dragon from hell, you shouldn't :(((((((
ompaul, so when i login with putty i will be using my new account i created instead of root in the future?
jonuk wheres your /? /lib /etc ????
RandolphCarter/dell500: i would have to check be sure though
Briguy: cat /etc/fstab
Briguy: ide?
darwin188: try sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
ty
There's a -bunch- of hours and work on this server, I wouldn't feel too good if i messed it up by disabling the root account.
ruchbah, sorry i don't konw what you're talking about
root@0[k# grub-install
install_device not specified.
so I can use CDISK to make partitions?
Old: you can always fix it by chrooting in from a livecd
any thoughts on running ubuntu on a T43p Thinkpad?
dgl: i'm running a dedicated apache2 install somewhere to server subversion repo's, just because the svn people made a apache-module like http://packages.debian.org/stable/net/libapache2-svn
im on a livecd
jonuk: cfdisk, yes
spacey:  what's the standard size for a FAT32 partition?
Ah, I know. But i have a few things todo on my spare time, and i dont feel like going down to the server just to fix that :-)
jonuk: maximum size you mean? i don't know, google it:)
Old, if you gave root a password and installed software and let it run as root all bets are off its reinstall time sorry but that is how I view it
jonuk: 1.44 MB ;)
kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk
maximmum size, yes
HellDragon, what?
jonuk: the max FAT32 partition size is 2TiB
AlwaysIcey, bunch of unknown devices in dev manager, where to look at first?
ack
you say a 250gb drive, w/ 10gb for /root, 20gb for home and 1gb for swap, with the rest unformated, where's the rest of your instalation?  Whaeres your root partition?  Is this up and running?
how the hell can i reinstall grub
grub-install doesnt work
looking at this deal for a durable high res ubuntu box... http://tinyurl.com/o2lym
can somebody help me with a library location problem im having
HellDragon: let me try to help you
HellDragon: you didn't specify the device
http://doc.ubuntu-fr.org/installation/grub#restauration i tried that , didnt work
ompaul, but cant i like..remove the root account, or perhaps disable it from people accessing it?
i see a smiley when i boot
no menu with kernel list and windows
buzzed: man, that's pricey, my PowerBook was less than that
2 terabytes?  why didn't a 219gb partition work then
amphi : how can i specify it
I just installed 3ddesktop - how do i run it?
jonuk: where you formatting it in Windows?
HellDragon, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/grub gives a few pages that you can try I am off to bed in two minutes
*were
HellDragon: what partition is your ubuntu install /
?
HellDragon: you're on a live cd, can you mount your ubuntu partition somewhere under /mnt ?
i can format it in either linux or windows
is your PB UXGA?
i dont know amphi
Knorrie, i dont know im lost
HellDragon: dont panic
hello
HellDragon: pastebin the output of 'fdisk -l /dev/hda'
how can you dont panic with all the spam
ook
well, windows won't like formatting a large drive, but mkdosfs /dev/*drive**partition* should work
HellDragon: spam?
nothing
fdisk -l /dev/hda says nothing
oh, sudo mkdosfs..
well, how about this
Old, the page tells you how to, however if a program is running as root one of these game servers your talking about then *all bets are off* the risk of a compromise is too high
Old, and with that I am gone, good night.
Knorrie HellDragon -- I've done that for a similar thing.  Had ubuntu on hd and booted dsl.  Mounted.  Ran grub-install.
RandolphCarter: PB 15 in. UXGA?
buzzed: 12", for Uni lectures ^_^
HellDragon: sata hd?
Oh well, Is there a high risc of people hacking theirselfs into my system?
I'll make a 20GB FAT32 partition, to let me read/write files in either linux or windows.  Then I'll make the rest just NTFS, so I can at least read the files in Linux
RandolphCarter: he'll need -F 32 to get anything larger than 2GB or so
amphi: yes
hyphenated: it'll automagic that
HellDragon: now you say so...
Old: not even people, there are lots of automated botnets that try to do that all the time
ack, no it won't, you need -F 32 :( (my bad)
HellDragon: fdisk -l /dev/sda perhaps
wrar, anyone using ubuntu on a ppc here, preferably a powerbook? If so, does switching virtual terminals with ctrl-alt-fwhatnot work?
2sec
bung I think there's a channel #ubuntu-ppc
bung: it worked in debian on an ibook, FWIW, but it was alt-ctrl-some_meta_key_fn
ruchbah: thanks
okay, running with nv
and uh, still a segmentation fault
http://pastebin.ca/57783 amphi
:(
Nintendud: no segfaulting?
HellDragon: *snarf*
no, there's segfaulting
dell500: not that i encourage software piracy *wink wink* but if i were you i'd get hiren's boot cd, which is downloadable via bittorrent
same problem :(
Knorrie, Hmmm.. But if i change the root password to something extremly hard then?
amphi: it works on the livecd iirc
bleh
so, now I have no clue what to do
:(
=== Hglcobra is now known as chriswk
i'll be in ubunti-ppc, this is too busy
Old: you shouldn't allow remote password-based-logins for the root account
HellDragon: ok; do this; 'mkdir mnt'
"E: Sub-process usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)" -- my friend keeps getting this error for gnome-terminal-data
What's up?
ok amphi
Old: never ever ever
is there bit torrent on this?
HellDragon: and then 'mount /dev/sda7 mnt'
jesus christ it's thundering loudly outside
ok
nintendud im guessing u like nintendo lol
woah - wait a second. Could someone take that again? Should i change the root pass to something hard (I'll write it down) to prevent brute forcing(?)
Nintendud: well, it would appear not to be your nvidia driver, so you can have your monitors back ;)
mugzie: yes, but that's irrelevant to my problem
amphi: yeah, but.. now what?
why
HellDragon: ls mnt shows you files and directories ?
yes
HellDragon: that's 'ls mnt'
is there bittorrent on ubuntu?
coucho, what version? 8?
mugzie: xmms and mplayer error out with a segmentation fault right when i run them. this happened after I installed the optimized 686 kernel.
HellDragon: ok; try 'chroot mnt'
mugzie: yes, Azureus is good
burps
o ok
mnt is empty now
so, does anyone have any other suggestions?
I really want to get mplayer back :(
Peolple, what is more secure way to set up an svn server? Inetd or standalone process?
HellDragon: pastebin me the output of 'mount'
Nintendud: don't use the sloptimised kernel ;)
Should i change the root pass to something hard (I'll write it down) to prevent brute forcing(?)
amphi: aww. :(
http://pastebin.ca/57786 amphi.
alright I'll uninstall it and reboot
brb
dell500: i believe the newest hiren's boot cd is 7.5, but i could very well be wrong
anyway i can get a 3dfx card working?
coucho, i'll look it up
what does hiren's boot cd do?
negman: as i said, i don't encourage software piracy :P, but it has a number of very useful programs on it
HellDragon: /dev/sda8 ??
coucho - what are the useful programs?  i've not even heard of it.
negman: harware testing tools, partitioning tools, backup tools, things like that
huh amphi ^
gotcha
anyone know where i can find a 32bit libSDL-1.2.so.0 file?
can i have some help?
i dont have any sda8
negman: it's great, it'll really simplify any of that stuff if you have to do it
HellDragon: your fdisk output shows /dev/sda7 as the linux partition, sda8 as linux swap; mount output shows "/dev/sda8 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)"
How might I go about installing SDL on Ubuntu 5.10?
coucho, 8.1 is out, but it has norton ghost on it too :) neat cd
can i burn a uso on ubuntu
dell500: yeah huh XD
iso**
HellDragon: look at what you just pastebin'd
mugzie theres plentty of ways to do that
dell500: i love it, i take it everywhere with me :P
o ok
cause im downloading something
download k3b
MorbidHunger, try sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
thats weird amphy
anyone seen elephants dream?
amphi
what i do now lol
i wanna go see brokeback mountain
coucho,  nice lol, ultra geek... i'll bbl, gotta get some lunch meat before the deli closes, peace
dell500: later dude
HellDragon: it is indeed; still, wtf, damn the torpedos, eh? ;) try 'grub-install /dev/sda'
Does anybody know where i can find a 32bit libSDL-1.2.so.0 file?
invalid device: error 94
and The file /boot/grub/stage1 not read correctly.
People, does anybody knows what is more secure way to start a service: inetd or standalone process?
=== Hglcobra is now known as chriswk
hi, how would Ubuntu react if I have a dialup modem and the Call Waiting service from my phone provider ? would it disconnect me automatically?
wtf
Another question
HellDragon: start again ;) and ask someone who has a sata disk ;)
i feel like a dick
what does that mean
HellDragon: what kind of mobo do you have?
thanx
touch yourself and die
I got the webmin to work atleast, lesser work then I though. And I actually remember everything I just did, that's a good sign of success *laughs* :-)
HellDragon: say what now?
but when i put the other video card in the it keeps saying the x server isnt installed
I'm having problems with install libstdc++5, sudo apt-get install libstdc++5, and I get a problem saying that with in my achives folder permission is denied
that gives me an idea
i dont know what to do amphi
eme?
I have use Wireless Internet, so when I was installing Ubuntu, it couldn't recognize my network settings (since I couldn't plug in).  I know how to go to Network Settings and get my Wireless connection active (obviously), but everytime I reboot I have to reactivate it.  How do I get it to permanently connect each time I boot?
The file /boot/grub/stage1 not read correctly.
 wtf is taht
MorbidHunger, you need to run that each time you swap video cards
HellDragon: what kind of mobo do you have?
E: Could not get lock /var/cache/apt/archives/lock - open (11 Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the download directory
HellDragon: means grub didn't install; reboot the cd
ill forget all the command
breeden: you have some other package manager open?
breeden, do you have Synaptic or something open too?
ill need to do everything over amphi ^
alright
but the one im using now is onbored
i have an s3trio i want to use
ok i reboot
brb
HellDragon: for now rembember your ubuntu / fs is /dev/sda7 - or is sda8? ;)
well, this is a fresh install of ubuntu, and I'm really not a linux user.  But ubuntu's default application add hasn't been of any help
I haven't tried synaptic yet
I don't think its install though
ok, I think I see the problem
thanks
I have a 64bit system but quake4 needs 32 bit libsdl files... where can i get those?
ynaptic
hey whats that program to adjust the brightness of xv
I had synaptic already open, hopefully this should fix the problem
it worked, thanks alot :)
breeden: that's why the package managers use the lock, so they don't clobber each other ;)
maike-maus: knoppix? That's bad news...
Hi, I really need to LAN card working on my laptop, but it doesn't tell me the model name. Is there a tool for this?.. Thanks a lot.
im back amphi
i stil see a smiley
HellDragon: yes, grub-install failed, so no surprise there
hi soundray
lss: what kind of laptop?
but wtf with the smiley ^
grub is laughing at me ^
lss: lspci might tell you
coucho,  it's a gateway MX3220b.
maike-maus: how are you getting on?
amphi, yeah I've seen it happen with FreeBSD's porting system
Hi, what inetd should I use: openbsd-ined or xinetd?
can i panic now
lss: sorry never heard of those, don't know what lan card they have
lss: did you try lspci?
coucho,  it's a "Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102"
soundray: network / internet doesn't want to work :(
lss: you may find info at linux-laptop.net and/or tuxmobil.org
lss: i think you've got it right there
coucho,  thanks, amphi  thanks too
lss: yw
AAAAAAAAAAAH lets scream up and down
maike-maus: same problem as ~20 hours ago?
dgl, to my understanding xinetd is not backwards compatible with inetd...  It would require some manual tunning if you were planning on running a server that didn't support xinetd directly, I believe
HellDragon: 'when in doubt, run in circles, scream & shout' ;)
lol
grub is dead!!!!!!!!!!! AAAAAAAAAAAH!
breeden, ok, so u should use openbsd-inetd?
rofl
HellDragon: how did you trash your mbr?
soundray: yes, xserver working but network still down
dgl, if you aren't planning on running any servers or anything like that you probably wont notice the difference, I would go with inetd
openbsd's
maike-maus: does the net work when you boot a live CD?
amphi : with partition magic on windows
i tried to resize J
its a NTFS part
soundray: ubuntu live cds doesn't boot... I tried with kanotix, this works great...
brentd, sorry, but I am a little confused about the packges names
anyone familiar with dovecot mail?
maike-maus: with ubuntu live, is it the freeze at hotplug?
HellDragon: ah... the curse of proprietary sw is upon you
:(
qtparted doesnt detect J
it says its full of errors..etc
so i tried with part magic
brentd, what packages offer inetd? I supose openbsd-inetd and xinetd, is there others packages?
root@server:/home/cs/warservers/speedlink# ./update.sh
./update.sh: line 2: ./steam: No such file or directory
brentd, , what packages offer inetd? I supose openbsd-inetd and xinetd, is there others packages?
what's the problem?
Does anyone know why my Gmail Notifier is buggy?
The file is there..
oh
one second :-)
Old, ease up on your Enter key a bit, please
soundray, no some problem wit i/o and pci (dapper)  - at hoary everything is fine until the splash screen- then the system freezes
does anyone know about imap and pop3?
!tell acid-trip about ask
acid-trip: what do you want to know?
acid-trip, I don't use it's pop3, but the imap is easy
KenSentMe, i have dovecot installed through package
but it the servers wont send or receive my emails
amphi can you help me in pm
theres too much spam ehre
My Gmail Notifier tray icon does weird things... like disappearing.  Anyone know why?
maike-maus: I guess I've been really lucky with my Turion laptop from Aldi. Almost everything worked straight away, including the Xpress 200 graphics... I'll stay away from Packard Bell, that's for sure.
Im really confused. I think i have got the driver now, and the drivers file name is "via-rhine.c" and I have no idea how to install it. Thanks
I might open a new site for Ubuntu Guides (Breezy and up), anyone have a suggestion for a name? I might also be looking for staff, anyone interested?
acid-trip: i've installed a pop3 and imap server myself using this howto: http://workaround.org/articles/ispmail-sarge/
how do remove modules ? i am trying to remove the fglrx module -not sure how to though
hi, i have so ubuntu but i can't see dvd movies
what can i do?
acid-trip: it's written for Debian Sarge but works for Ubuntu (Dapper)
I might open a new site for Ubuntu Guides (Breezy and up), anyone have a suggestion for a name? I might also be looking for staff, anyone interested?
i dont' ahve dapper
i have badger
acid-trip: works for breezy too
andrejkw: what's wrong with the wiki?
!tell _ClouD_ about dvd
pfft
leojstewart: I don't use that program, but are you sure it doesn't disappear by design? Like, when you have no new mail?
lol amphi
what is the spanish channel?
How can i add a dutch spellchecker to OpenOffice?
#ubuntu-es
!es
Hispanohablantes: Por favor usen #ubuntu-es, #kubuntu-es o #edubuntu-es, alli obtendran mas ayuda.

_antix: well I find it very disorganized and confusing for newcomers
anyone know hot to handle modules ?
makelele: woth kid gloves, IMHO
er, with
makelele: what modules?
KenSentMe: install openoffice.org-l10n-nl
amphi:i am trying to remove the fglrx module (not in /etc/modules) but it still shows up in lsmod
soundray: is already installed, but is this package not only for menus etc.?
KenSentme:i am trying to remove the fglrx module (not in /etc/modules) but it still shows up in lsmod
asdf
KenSentMe: myspell-nl
makelele: modprobe -r fglrx ?
amphi: i still have a problem with sendmail: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14419
amphi: but what happens when i reboot ?
coucho: why tell me about sendmail?
KenSentMe, try installing myspell-nl
makelele, put it in blacklist
amphi: cause you helped me with it yesterday
coucho: with sendmail?
linuxbomb: how do i do that
amphi: ah wait, no you didn't, sorry
er bimberi you're quick or I'm slow :)
/etc/hotplug/blacklist
anyone familiar with sendmail in here?
coucho: ;) I use postfix
KenSentMe: you're right. The spellchecker is in myspell-nl
amphi: yeah i remember now :D
how can I edit fstab? it's read only :-(
Briguy: use sudo
Briguy: sudo
soundray: nickrud: bimberi: right, myspell is the one i was looking for. Thank you
makelele, i normally just mv the module from /lib/modules/
goodnight, is it possibly to use dialup and adsl at the same time, on the same computer with ubuntu to boost bandwidth ?
hi
=== blind|AFK is now known as blind
linuxbomb: thanks i will try that,although your second option sounds better, this ATI card is causing me grief
i wanted to share a folder using samba. I have a USB drive that mounted to a folder. For some reason when i share that folder, i cant get it access from a windows computer, any help?
k i'm getting a little pissed off now, can anyone please help me with sendmail?
nickrud: i found my aussie spellchecking yesterday so knew where to look :)
what was that one command someone just gave me?
coucho, what problem are you experiencing ?
http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14419
thnx
makelele, just do a search in /lib/modules and move it to somewhere and then it wont get loaded
this is weird.
how do i change video cards?
I'm using Dapper on a laptop, and every time I try to hibernate, it merely starts the screen saver.  Am I doing something wrong, or is this a known problem?
CokeNCode: i use postfix now, but it still seems to want to use sendmail
can someone please help?? need to install my lan card. I've got the correct driver, but don't understand the instructions
I rebooted into 386 kernel, mplayer and xmms worked, uninstalled the 686 kernel, rebooted, and now segmentation fault again
<
linuxbomb:thanks ,one more thing ,do you know what the modass dir is all about ?
im getting pissed too
I can't win :(
let's all get pissed :P
MorbidHunger, sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
looks like everyone is pissing here at the moment
\o/
does the xerver has to be running?
coucho, apt-get install sendmail
no they're gtting pissed
the package handler will pretty much do the job for you
makelele, no idea , but check out modconf utility
CokeNCode: i don't want to install sendmail, i just got rid of it XD
I seriously don't understand what's happening
now, to my problem folks ... does anyone know if i can use adsl and dialup at the same time
yes
and would it conflict with my onbored video?
Nintendud: your ram might be marginal?
Nintendud: mplayer has optimized packages for 386, 686 etc... is the right one installed?
oh, sorry coucho ... right now i'm supposed to have a 512 connection, and i'm connecting at 18 and below ... so i'm a bit distracted ... :/
Knorrie: I compiled it myself, and it worked before.
is there a way to see "extra messages" from xorg? i'm having problems (lockups) and the log files don't show nothing
amphi: I have 384 megs of RAM and I'm running XFCE4
this is a retarded question but how do you save an opened vim document via console?
CokeNCode: that's ok, i understand, that's very f'ing frustrating
i have 256 sd
everything worked fine before that damned 686 optimized kernel
Nintendud: don't complain @ ubuntu if you compile yourself ;)
Knorrie: xmms doesn't work either
and that wasn't compiled by me
a smoking ati rage lt pro onbored video
:P
Nintendud: I meant is it dodgy - it might be worth trying memtest86
Briguy: use nano man, much better
amphi: no.
:P
I seriously doubt it's a RAM issue
Nintendud: me too, just fumbling for a straw ;)
Briguy: ESC :wq
like I said, it worked when I booted into the 386 kernel, but once I uninstalled the 686 kernel and rebooted... segmentation fault again
if i reconfigure the x server does it have to be running
I've added a Samba share to my desktop so i can copy files to and from it. Why don't those network connections work when i use the 'browse'  function on websites in Firefox?
Nintendud: but that it worked with the 386 kernel while the 686 one was installed, but not when the 686 was uninstalled makes no sense at all
amphi: I know.
MorbidHunger: probably not, maybe it even needs to not run
i ran it while it was running
Nintendud: so don't muddy the waters ;)
but when i put the s3trio in the server bitches at me and wont run
is it cuz i have onbored video?
amphi: it might make more sense if I told you that everytime I booted into a different kernel, X would crash on boot and I had to apt-get install and remove nvidia-glx-dev before it would run, and it would continue to work correctly every time I rebooted until I use a different kernel
er, apt-get remove and install*
MorbidHunger: a server? video? does a server need a video card?
dont think so
but it wont run
whichj puzzles me
(might have to do with "nvidia TLS links", since whenever I install it it updates the "nvidia TLS links"
)
any idea why hibernate stopped working in Dapper, it just restarts the system now.
arr, this is weird
Nintendud: that's part of the fun of proprietary drivers I believe; just pick a kernel and stick to it, is my advice ;)
what's a s3trio? or is that a really dumb question?
DewDude: hibernate sounds like suspend to disk... and yeah.. network connections will be lost
amphi: well, I still don't know how to fix this. and it's really frustrating me.
i'm not talking network connections
this video card i found laying around at school
i know they get lost
coucho: some video card chip
lol k
coucho: an antique ;)
heheh
i'm taking about rather than restoring after syuspend, it just restarts
i just cant get it to work with ubuntu
it is very old
cuz i pretty much stopped all my apps that use networking before i hit hibernate
Nintendud: pick a kernel, and reinstall all the nvidia packages I'd guess
my athlon xp died and im stuck on this peece of shit from hell
hmm
MorbidHunger: why wont the onboard card work?
MorbidHunger: i would suggest buying a geforce 4 or something, costs nothing and will work
well, I'm only using the 386 kernel now
it does work jsut horrible
i dont have an agp slot on this mobo
...oh..wait...would suspend to disk be dependant on the kernal image you were using?
hello does anyone know a good APACHE-MYSQL-PHP for ubuntu?
MorbidHunger, you need to run the reconfigure command after putting in the new card (sorry if you have, I was awy for a sec)
MorbidHunger: i've got a mx420 and it works perfectly, and it probably exists as pci card too
DewDude: this is using swsusp?
MorbidHunger: if it's meant to be a server... an utp cable is more important than vga :P
umm...i'm hitting hibernate from the log off menu
it's worked before
heh
meh
Knorrie: you dutch btw?
coucho: yes
ah
ubuntu doesnt even detect my onbored audio
m2
i dont have a fan or a heatsink either
however, when i was using the wifi earlier, i was using my 386  kernal rather than the 686 because my wifi tends to lock the 686 kernel up
coucho: i saw you using paste.ubuntunl ;p
XD
DewDude: it might be that you need to boot with restore=/dev/foo where /dev/foo is your swap partition, for it to work
um hello
Evanescent: hi
its amazing this thing works
MorbidHunger: lol
i should send ug uys pics later
heh, well, if it's using disk swap, it's probablty already overwritten the session
MorbidHunger: lol @ onbored audio
yeah
:D
this is where i make myself look really stupid
ill see if i can get a sound card tomroww
DewDude: er, s/restore/resume
MorbidHunger, that's a shame because ubuntu worked on all my hardware
Evanescent: you're not stupid
MorbidHunger: you do that
only thing i can't get running is 3d on my laptop
its cuz im on a compaq and my karma sucks
DewDude: and yes, a normal boot will obliterate the session
!MorbidHunger++
can someone tell me how to install ubuntu as a dual boot with 2kpro?
Morbid fact: On June 29, 1955, the reign of King Haakon VII, who had ruled Norway from the time of its independence in 1905, effectively came to an end when the beloved monarch fell in the royal bathtub at his palace in Oslo. The elderly king lingered on for over two years before succumbing on Setpember 21, 1957, to complications resulting from his fall.
amphi: alrighty then, no real big loss
this is horrible guys
it had worked before..i'll ahve to play with it a bit
HOLY CRAP
Evanescent: first install 2k, then install ubuntu
amphi: reinstalling nvidia stuff and everything worked
dominion: whiskey tango foxtrot?
I don't even have to reboot
my laptop lacks battery, so, if i take it anywhere, i like to sysuspend to disk so i don't have to wait for the boot process
Does anybody else have problems with Gmail-Notify?
DewDude: yeah, I use swsusp a lot
wish application could you recommend me for partitioning my disk????
thank you amphi. makes me wonder if I could reinstall the 686 kernel and reinstall nvidia things to get it to work. ;p but I am not doing that today
ok but will the s3trio conflict with the onbored video?
Evanescent: the ubuntu installer will overwrite the boot record with a boot-loader, and present w2k and ubuntu choice
thanks for the help and patience
DewDude: no need to reboot, evar ;)
cocox: partition magic
whats the command to display system information
coucho, for linux ?
coucho: no
XD
just kidding
sry
amphi: yeah, i think my problem was i didn't specify the kernel i suspended with, because i think my ndiswrapper conflicts with 686
Can anyone help me please? I have this error message after.....
_____________________________
Failed to start the X server {your graphical interface). It is likely that it is not set up correctly. Would you like to view the X server output to diagnose the problem
_________________________________
cocoxparted or cfdisk or ...
coucho, ( WinROFLING face... )
Evanescent: whenever 'repairing' w2k or reinstalling w2k, the windows installer breaks your system
Knorrie: yeah i've already got 2kpro installed i'm just not sure how to go about installing ubuntu. i downloaded the iso, opened it with undisker and burnt the files to a data disc but it's not bootable
Khoacalacan. thats the same shit i got
heh
Dam anyone know how to fix it???
hey, i've like, installed linux, then installed XP, then fixed dual boot
man, i had some fun with the MBR that day
install xp than linux
DewDude: yeah, it's not rocket surgery ;)
Evanescent: when you burn the iso to a cdrom it should be bootable
Khoacalacan, http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=174537 read this at the end
Ok thank you
amphi, dual-booting or my suspend issue
Khoacalacan, there is the solution
DewDude: that's not very wise
DewDude: dual booting
i should read that roo
too*
Thank you cocox
coucho: i know. I learned my lesson when after resoring my MBR, my XP partition was gone.
Khoacalacan np :)
DewDude: ouch XD
i was able to get that back by telling CFDisk to repartition
hooray for crappy hardware!!
coucho: no, cfdisk fixed it in about 2 seconds
it's been dual-booting ever since
DewDude: I imagine very Bad Things(TM) will happen if you boot a different kernel than you suspended with and manage to get the session to restore
DewDude: wow
amphi, yeah, i totally forgot i had done that.
Knorrie: even after opening the iso file first?
DewDude: didn't think that was possible
cuz i was about ready to throw this out a window earlier
coucho: sure it is.
Evanescent: you dont need to open an iso, just burn it byte-by-byte to a cdrom
i had a drive partition completely disappear once
Cocox: Is it near the bottom of the topic or the whole thing?
DewDude: doesn't the xp install completely overwrite the mbr?
hey i am making a multimedia cd for windows and i want to make an icon for the launcher to launch    does anyone know how to do this?
amphi, what is the difference between qparted, cfdisk or gparted ??? can anybody please tell me wish one is the best ??
hello all, just wondering if there is a way to test surround sound in ubuntu?
coucho: yes, it does
but..if you partition your drives out
DewDude: then what?
back up the MBR, install windows, then restore the MBR, that CAN work
Evanescent: you're burning in windows?
provided you don't backup before setting your partitions
Knorrie: ok i'll try it but if it desn't work i'll be back to haunt you...
yes
Evanescent: using what tool?
cocox: depends for what - one of the parteds if you need to resize some existing partition, otherwise cfdisk for just normally partitioning a disk; there's fdisk and sfdisk as well, but cfdisk is the simplest to use
nero
DewDude: so first install linux, backup mbr, install xp, replace mbr?
coucho: that's one way of doing it IF you want to install linux before windows
Evanescent: nero should allow you to just 'burn cd image'
but make sure you have EVERYTHING partitioned out
coucho: or just reinstall grub
yeah
amphi, all those allow me to change mi partiotion size without erase my data ??
DewDude: yeah i just installed xp first, seemed easier XD
you'll need a live or bootcd either way
Evanescent: i did that some long time ago when i had windows installed :P
yeah it's being awkward
Cocox: Is solution near the bottom of the topic or the whole thing?
my nfs mount stopped working.  I didn't change anything, but now I get the message "mount: box:/media/jakarta failed, reason given by server: Permission denied" .. there's nothing in the server or client /var/log/messages and the exports allows 192.168.* ... any suggestions of where I could look now?
im so screwed
Khoacalacan, lol just the last post
ok i'll try it anyway, thanks for now
MorbidHunger: get some decent hardware
oh I was reading the whole thing XD
MorbidHunger: sorry :P
coucho: the parteds are for that as I said; I've succesfully resized an ntfs partition once for someone with a parted; better to back up before messing with partitions generally, IMHO
Falstius, did you check your /etc/fstab?
i need to buy a mobo
i dont have 60 bucks
Khoacalacan, excuse me the one before the last post
MorbidHunger: student life is hard
yeah
or...wait..is the NFTS drive in your local machine or are you doing it over LAN using Samba?
espically when im busy fixing everyone else stuff
and than they bitch about the free work i did
Arghhhh
DewDude: I can't mount it from the command line either ...
meh sorry for the rant
MorbidHunger: just buy asrock or something, that oughtta be less than 60 bucks
ttyl guys
later
mom finished dinner
MorbidHunger: have fun cu later
yeah im sure i cna buy one for less
but not one id be happy with
Falstius: answer my question about the location of the NTFS drive
true
ttyl guys
thanx for the help
MorbidHunger: my current server is a PII233
233?
im on a 450 k6-2
heh, my server is a 400mhz PowerPC
MorbidHunger: so quit yer bitching ;)
mine is a p4 2.4, i know, overkill XD
MorbidHunger: so DONT COMPLAIN :DDD
im not bitched about the cpu
ghehehe
DewDude: a simple mount "box:/media /media" gives me that error.  This is NFS, not NTFS.
just the video
MorbidHunger: serial console rocks
MorbidHunger: it can't do 80x25 console?
oh, nfs
i'm dyslexic
CPU: AMD Athlon 64 3500+
no worries.
ow wait, wrong one
doesn't help when trying to learn linux
umm...i don't really know...everytime i've done anything with NFS, i've had to use a howto
where do you put .sh files?
like, i got samba commands memorized
Anyone know where to put my .sh files?
ahh, I'm the opposite.  Normally I can just do nfs, but I have to look up anything to do with samba.
hey i ahve a cd-wr what should my fstab permissions be?
Old: ~/bin
just in /bin ?
k
Old: ~/bin
what's ~ ? :)
Old: no, ~/bin, or wherever you want then
m
Old: means $HOME
ah
Old: ~ = your homedir
let me try
yeah though so, but didnt understand it in the beginning
Old: man bash explains this, and other wonders ;)
hmpfh
k i think it really is my turn now
can somebody help me get started with ubuntu?
I put it in /bin only, and i got this:
Output from command .. /bin/sh: ./stop.sh: No such file or directory
darwin yeah
I just installed it and dont know what to do
Darwin188: install u
what do you see?
Nevermind
it seems the xserver doesnt want to start
Old: what are you doing?
Can someone show me how to get MIDIs to play?
i need to buy a mobo i dont have 60 bucks'
!nl
keht
Op #ubuntu-nl staat de koffie al voor je klaar.
using webmin to interfere with my gameservers, stop the server with the stop.sh
hahahah inderdaad
amphi: thanks
and i had to use the install video=ofonly option
Cocox: can you help me in the private please
you click the "stop server" button, and it exectues stop.sh
coucho: irssi split screen sucks
!paste
Please don't flood the channel! For best results use the pastebin at http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/ and tell people the URL
Knorrie: how's that?
hmm i don't know
one second, dont say anything, I think i found the problem. (Getting late :-(
Knorrie: oh wait, command line interface right?
Old: dunno about webmin, but you might want to specify the absolute path to stop.sh
Knorrie: so don't do that then ;)
can someone tell me how to play MIDIs on ubuntu
darwn188 give me a sec, I'll see if I can help
i'm new to this
ok thanks man
amphi, it's in /home/cs/warservers/speedlink
Output from command .. /bin/sh: line 0: cd: /home/cs/warservers/speedlink: Permission denied /bin/sh: ./stop.sh: No such file or directory
I get that now
Knorrie: do you know anything about sendmail?
coucho: i contantly put stuff in the wrong channel, i tweaked my irssi config to show some ugly red big banner at the active part, but i think my eyes are getting used to it
lol
tberg: timidity is one midi program
coucho: no, i'm a postfix user
k
Any ideas amphi ?
amphi: have mercy ^_^
Old: your script is b0rked ;)
Knorrie: vnc server maybe? :P
not really amphi
can i post it? it's 3 lines..
lol
is there a "shutdown script" ? cause it seems like as soon as i choose to "shutdown" on my laptop (dapper) screen goes blank and nothign happens (power still on though)
b0rked
Old: pastebin it
what's the url for pastebin again?
!pastebin
[pa http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
Knorrie: any experience with vnc server?
coucho: yes
great!!
coucho: why
anyone know how to run a speaker test?
nvm
Knorrie: i can't get it to work properly
coucho: vnc sucks, xdmcp rulez
iguananed: play a sound :-)
!pastebin
I heard pastebin is http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
xdmcp?
lol
coucho: yes
coucho: i use that a lot
Knorrie: in windows?
sorry I meant to test individual speakers .. ie 5.1
coucho: in what??
coucho: ;p
Knorrie: sry :) i'm still a linux noob, plus i game a lot
amphi, this is how i start it: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14420
Should I use kernel framebuffer device interface?
Knorrie: and since i don't have a monitor for my servertje i was planning on using vnc for some stuff
so about my shutdown question? any ideas?
at the very least is there a shutdown LOG so i can see if anythign is happening?
figured out my NFS problem, 192.168.* style wildcards aren't working.  Maybe its the VPN running.
hi
this is the stop script amphi, http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14421
darwin188 - do you have a file called /etc/XF86config, or some variation on that?
where?
Old: why don't you just make a proper init script for it?
i d like to know if someone knows a way to revert a "rm" command ?
how do you mean ?
darwin188 - sorry /etc/X11/XF86config
Knorrie: is there some sort of xthingy viewer for windows?
is there a kind of trash when we use rm ?
Old: like the ones in /etc/init.d
tommy_: no undelete on ext3
how do i check taht?
darwin188 - do this .. cd /
Looks like the same amphi ?
tommy_: no trash
amphi, well, to bad for me
darwin188 -  .. cd /etc/X11
coucho: #ubuntu-nl?
yow
darwin188 -  then ls
command not found
tommy_: yeah ;(
darwin188 -  sorry the dots weren't part of it.  Did you type those?
I get this error amphi, Output from command .. /tmp/.webmin/529328_2_run.cgi: line 2: cd: /home/cs/warservers/speedlink: Permission denied /tmp/.webmin/529328_2_run.cgi: line 2: ./stop.sh: No such file or directory
ok lets see
the ./stop.sh command works in that dir
no such file or directory, hey but i installed the powerpc version
/home/cs/warservers/speedlink <- that dir, the stop.sh works
Old: in what dir?
darwin188 -  you'r on a ppc
yes
darwin188 -  you're on a ppc?
My system often freezes when I exit Azureus
Old: but that's probably not webmin's CWD
does anyone know why?
huh?
root@server:/home/cs/warservers/speedlink# ./start.sh
No screen session found.
A server has been restarted.
thats what i get when i try to ./start.sh
I had a look at this http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=161624 but I wasn't sure what to make of it..
Why is WEBMIN no in the ubuntu repos?
not*
yes i am on a ppc
darwin188 -  you out there?
How do I get tar to extract to a certain directory?
jadaz87, it is
yes i am
!info webmin
i am here
darwin188 -  there you are
webmin: (web-based administration toolkit), section universe/admin, is optional. Version: 1.230-1 (breezy), Packaged size: 1154 kB, Installed size: 6368 kB
ruchbah
Madpilot: i just searched for it
lufis: man tar ;)
jadaz87, it's in Universe
amphi, ;)
ping ruchbah_
Madpilot: i have both universe and multiverse enabled
lufis: I commend -C to your attention ;)
amphi, any ideas why i get that error? I cant seem to understand it
darwin188 -  ok, there is a ppc channel #ubuntu-ppc (I think)
okey
Ampi: alright, thank you
jadaz87, you running Breezy or Dapper?
but it shouldnt be different
amphi&
i think
Madpilot: dapper
believe
jadaz87, I read somewhere that webmin has been dropped completely from Dapper
NOO!!! :-(
Madpilot: why?
Old: the error is clear - no script called stop.sh in CWD
Madpilot: can i install the one from breezy?
Hi, does any body knows how to change the totem video output? i install xgl, the videos are really slow, I think I have to change it to gl or gl2...
CWD?
'cat /etc/X11/FX86' but hit tab before enter and let it auto compleate
Old: current working directory
ruchbah_, there is no channel #ubuntu-ppc
darwin188 -  what do you get?
jadaz87, no idea, on either of your questions
Why is it that with the 'Weather Report' that when I click Update, it seems to update, but the 'Last Update' says a time of twenty or so minutes ago?
hmpfh
Old: because the cd command failed
from your paste above
Does anyone know?
leojstewart, the weather only updates once an hour or so - it's from the US Weather Service website
anyone could tell me how to force framebuffer to use a i810 driver instead of the vesa one?
Madpilot - any where else he should check for ppc specific stuff?
Oh, I thought it was from Weather.com
thanks, Madpilot
gonna try something else, one sec
ruchbah_, no - but there are Ubuntu_PPC users here...
ok
is there any way to make it update from a different website which updates more fequently?
shinu: console fb?
Madpilot, I;m trying to plug my ipaq
leojstewart, it's an open source app, so probably ;)
darwin188 -- you still out there?
Madpilot, witout any luck
yes
whats up?
amphi: yes
ruchbah_: i am still here
Madpilot: i'm a linux-newbie... so if it's hard, it's probably not worth it :)
=== Evanescent is now known as GhostInTheMachin
leojstewart, heh
darwin188 -- did you catch that that there is no ppc specific channel?  Did you try the FX86 thing?
whero do I get synce??
greetings
shinu: perhaps boot with 'video=i810fb', but you might need more than that - is that one of those 'shared memory' cards?
hello everyone
=== GhostInTheMachin is now known as Evanescent
what are the most famous open source web design programs?
also, does anyone know why quiting Azureus often freezes my computer/
It's a pain...
amphi: yep
yes
paueas: vim and emacs without a doubt ;)
it says no such file or directory
paueas, Bluefish, Screem or Nvu
so i downloaded bittornado using synaptic... where is the icon to run it?
does anyone know what this means?
I found this: http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=161624 but couldn't find a fix...
does anyone know what this means?
Failed to fetch http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/dapper/universe/binary-i386/Packages.bz2  MD5Sum mismatch
darwin188 -- do this at the command line: ls /etc/X11
Reading package lists... Done
new to ubuntu...cant login to ubuntu server through windows machine can anyone help ??
shinu: you may have to do something special for such a card, not sure, I don't have one
darwin188 -- do you have something that starts with FX86?
=== Evanescent is now known as GhostInTheMachin
oh ok
ill google around a bit more then
thanks amphi
shinu: reserve ram for it or summat
same
keithsr: can you see the ubuntu server in the win machine?
guys why the synce packages are not found??
yes
darwin188 -- command not found?
bitwaut
wait
yeah it
worked
shinu: google will know, with any luck ;)
when you download a application from sinaptic , where does it go?
keithsr: what does it says when you try to access?
ruchbah_: it worked
sflash: dpkg -L package-name will show what files a package installed
then what?
darwin188 -- do you have something that starts with FX86?
:)
Zizou: it wats a user and password
sflash, that depends what it is
no
sflash: the deb files go in /var/cache/apt/archoves, but packages put files in various locations
How can I access my startup programs... and how can I add a program to startup with the system?
darwin188 -- just a sec
keithsr: ok... you have to use smbpasswd "user"
ok
does anyone know how to get files within a directory using wget
keithsr: user is an actual user of the ubuntu server...
?
I have two(2) hard drives and it only shows one hard drive on my computer, How do I make the second one show?
ok, i just want to run this app that i downloaded bittornado. but the icon doesnt exist in my applications menu on top
Sessions, Startup Programs
do i have to add it manually?
bimberl: Thanks :)
i have tried that but it is not working
leojstewart: np :)
darwin188 -- how about xorg.conf?
keithsr: how is that? is the only way
sflash: probably, some packages don't create menu entries :|  right-click on the Applications Menu and select Edit Menus
What sort of "extention" does a printer driver file usually have?
I am having issues with logging in as ROOT - I have tried the su passwd root and still no go.. I just installed Ubuntu yesterday
hey
keithsr: if you have an user "zizou" in the ubuntu server
adrums20: You mean sudo passwd root, right?
keithsr: you do smbpasswd zizou
yes
keithsr: is this samba?  if so samba has its own password list - "sudo smbpasswd -a username"
adrums20: What happened when you tried that?
keithsr: then when youre accesing the ubuntu server you type the user zizou and the password you asinght it..
let me try bud
darwin188 -- breaker breaker
heh?
i am still here
darwin188 -- how about /etc/X11/xorg.conf?
keithsr: try with the same password that is in the linux acount
yes
i have it
yes samba...ihave done that
Any extensions other than .ppd for printer driver files?  Anyone?
rachbah_ : still holding
it asks for the password and then I type it in. and back to the prompt it goes
darwin188 -- can you post it on http://paste-ubuntu.nl.org?
what shhould i post?
the problem is that i am on my laptop and i am installing linux on another computer
lat2bt
darwin188 -- ok, ok, let me see ....
adrums20: So it doesn't say "Password updated succesfully"?
nope
someone told me to use sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but i dont know what to do there
what do i install to get j++ support?
adrums20: Odd.
hi
amphi you still there ^
thats what I thought.  I have been reading all day on the posts and nothing works after a fresh install
when using smbpasswd it gives all options when  i use the options it says it had to abort
grub works, but i cant boot on linux, only windows, when i try to boot on any linux kernel it says error 17 : sda8 not mounted
adrums20: I'm not quite sure what that means.  You could do "sudo grep 'root' /etc/shadow"
darwin188 -- is the linux box on line then?
mount /dev/sda8 doesnt work
adrums20: The second field is a crypted password.
no its offline
anyone can help me
linux is recently installed and unconfigured to do anything
anyone have any hint for me ? =- what do i install to get j++
adrums20: It should be a bunch of jibberish (don't post it here), but it might be a "*".
adrums20: A "*" indicates no password set.
but i get to errors
Helldragon i can try
darwin188 -- what happens when you try that dpkg command?
Helldragon: because sda8 is your swap partition, IIRC from your fdisk -l output - what is the kernel command line in grub?
once I do that command, it goes back to the prompt
=== sub|at|alpopel is now known as sub|off
i get into a blue screen
with options
for selecting drivers, resolutions, keyboards etc
i dont understand amphi
=== sub|off is now known as sub|at|alpopel
but everythging seems to be selected just fine
when i do startx
darwin188 -- ok, that's good.  Get there
adrums20: Wait, you did "sudo grep 'root' /etc/shadow" and got no output?
i get error of Unable to find a vlaid framebuffer device
okey
Helldragon: linux is trying to mount the wrong partition as / AFAICS
thats correct - nothing
thats weird
how can i fix that
For those of you who know your way around linux, how long did it take for you to get down the basics?
 fdisk -l output says nothing
im using bash
adrums20: Ok...  Well, do "sudo less /etc/shadow"
darwin188 -- do you have an option in there to not look for a framebuffer dev?
where do i setup enviroment variables ?
nothing goes back to the prompt again
That should allow you to view the contents of the /etc/shadow file (which contains your crypted passwords).
someone told me to use sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but i dont know i guess
wait i guess
Helldragon: in the grub menu, choose linux, hit e, go to the kernel line, and if it says root=/dev/sda8 try changing it to /dev/sda7
ok
adrums20: Hmm...something is very, very messed up there.
ill try brb
think a reinstall?
use kernel framebuffer device interfcace
yes or no?
adrums20: Well...that's probably premature.
darwin188 -- no
breezy is v5.10, right?
im still a newbie at this..and I just installed it last night
Helldragon: then you hit esc and b to boot IIRC - it's been a while
autodetect keyboard
darwin188 -- yeap
Helldragon: er, enter and b
i skipped all the keyboard stuff
hey ubuntu started printing error messages any idea what they are? http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14343
darwin188 -- fine
anyone else unable to use google search?
adrums20: Hmm...I have to go.  Hopefully someone more knowledgable than me can help.  What you're saying should NOT result from a normal install, though, so either you're doing something simple wrong (that I'm just missing) or something was VERY messed up with your install.
now i am on configuring xserver-xorg..select the x.org server modules that should be loaded by default
PORDO, works for me
PORDO: google works from here
alrighty thanks bud
adrums20: Good luck.  Sorry to run.
anyone know how to login as root -
darwin188 -- ok what kind of hardware do you have and what are the choices?  I usually just make a reasonable guess
the first one i bought, yesterday, was a dud..so i took it back today and forgot to return one little piece, still in my pocket.  now i have two stylii.
adrums20: i usually just do 'sudo -i'
adrums20,  can't you just use sudo -s from your normal user instead of logging in with root ?
the video card is an ati radeon 16 megas
for some reason after a fresh install, I cant
i have cohices already selected glcore bitmap ddc dri extmod freetype glx int10 tuupe1
after every sudo anything I do, it goes back to the command prompt
the unselected ones are dbe record and v41
nothing happends
darwin188 -- I think that's straight.  Is there a radion on the list?
j++ help?
where to get it?
that list was way at the beginning but yes there was
its already selected
darwin188 -- Just don't select for a really high res when you get to that point, and see if it works ; )
if i deleted a dir, is there a way to recover it?
okey
hello all
let me try that
plz, i have a nfs server and my machine asclient
:(
it doesnt work
nothing from sda0 to sda7 works , amphi
it always say partition not mounted
im trying to mount, and it giveme a couldnot read superblock
how do i select an option
how i can solve it?
(p.s: it was mounted another time)
darwin188 -- an option in a list?  With the space bar
cause if i press return i will go to the next screen
ok
hoiw many bit should i select?
if i deleted a dir, is there a way to recover it?
Old: on ext3? not really
crap
someone?
i am still getting errors
darwin188 -- I'd say no more than 16.
FATAL errors
okey let me try that
darwin188 -- hang on
grub is shit
darwin188 -- see what you get from tail /var/log/Xorg.0.log
knoppix_: grub is teh roxor
=== knoppix_ is now known as HellDragon_
i didnt see me nick
lol
ok
i am hanging
=== HellDragon_ is now known as HellDragon
but wtf
darwin188 -- see what you get from tail /var/log/Xorg.0.log
nothing works
HellDragon: it didn't boot when you changed sda8 to sda7 ?
no
it say partition not mounted
i tried everything from sda0 to sda7
darwin188 -- that tail give you anything?
yes
grub is poop
HellDragon: in the 'root=' kernel argument?
a bunch of lines
HellDragon: did you use --init when you installed the new kernel
lol
fatal server error: no screens found
no
i think i can panic now
HellDragon: where?
HellDragon: did you edit the kernel line in grub's boot menu?
HellDragon: i always have to do that when i install new kernels
yes
darwin188 -- ok.  The bit depth isn't going to hel that, methinks...
i hitted e , hitted e another time then hitted b
HellDragon: and did what?
everytime it was not working
EE unable to find a framebuffer device, EE r128 failed to open framebuffer device, ee screens found, but none have a usable configuration
ERROR 17: PARTITION NOT MOUNTED
HellDragon: so you didn't edit the command line at all?
i edited it
yes
HellDragon: to what?
but it says sda7 is not mounted
to sda7
darwin188 -- you said no frame buffer in the wizard, right?
changed 8 to 7
Kuja: Not finished yet.
HellDragon: in the root=/dev/hda8 arg?
yes
yes
I'm litterly going nuts.
Kuja: 23%.
webmin is something not for people with no temprament ((a note to everyone
HellDragon: is this a kernel you built yourself?
no
Old: from what I hear, webmin is not for people ;)
It's not for human beings..
its for animal beings
darwin188 -- ?? try saying yes?
grub is poop
yes
rachbah-yes
Grrrrrrrrrr
if i already install amule but i want to uninstall it, how can i know what is the name of the package for make an dpkg -r ?????
HellDragon: please stop saying that, it isn't
darwin188 -- in the wizard I mean, to fb ; )
ruchbah_ yes i get no framebuffer
then why it breaks every week
every week i need to fix it
it breaks because of everything
oh okey
i think i already did
i unplug my printer, poof not working
darwin188 -- try running the dpkg command that you just ran.
etc..
so grub is poop
wait a sec
!!!!!!!!!!!!!
HellDragon: No idea, try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/
darwin188 -- It was asking if you wanted to use the kernnel's framebuffer device
panic
!kernel panic
Did you get hit by a windmill? Try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, HellDragon
yes it asked tath
Is ubuntu generally good at detecting video cards?  My video card was "detected" but its updating slowly. Any ideas guys?
Taru: You actually found your way to IRC on your own?
lol
amphi ill test another time brb
Kuja: Yes, it is quite easy actually.
amphi, can you understand this?: Output from command .. ./settings.conf: line 2: : command not found ./settings.conf: line 10: : command not found ./settings.conf: line 29: : command not found ./settings.conf: line 34: : command not found ./settings.conf: line 36: : command not found usage ./start.sh start|stop|r
HellDragon: grub has never broken for me, so perhaos it's not grub...
ruchbah - i am already at the configuration screens
darwin188 -- I don't know.  I'm a bit lost here.  I think try a bit of trial and error.
ok
but you think this is the way to solve the problem?
Old: whatever commands are being invoked from those lines are not found ;)
or is there another possible cause of the problem
if i already install amule but i want to uninstall it, how can i know what is the name of the package for make an dpkg -r ?????
oh ...grrr
Kuja: 42% -_-
Taru: So you... got into GNOME?
Taru: Or are you on your brother's computer right now?
Kuja: Not yet ; ;
cocox: apt-get remove [--purge]  amule ?
darwin188 -- I've never messed with a framebuffer problem.  I know the regular X set up fairly well, but we're a bit out of my relm
Kuja: Still on my brother's computer.
Is ubuntu generally good at detecting video cards?  My video card was "detected" but its updating slowly. Any ideas guys?
okey then
thanks for your time
jhenn: what card is it?
your welcome
amphi, http://www.ew-clan.co.uk/tuts/images/webtut2.jpg
thats how it looks atm
the settings.conf / start.sh are in .bin
in my ubuntu i installed
Kuja: I have to go back and forth, it's getting really lame.
in cspan i have to use make
Old: how what looks? I'm on dialup...
and there is no make in the bin directory
Look at the picture if you can, thats how the setup looks
sflash: install build-esential perhaps
is this correct
Taru: Well... that's your fault :P
ok
Old: setup of what?
Kuja: 54% :/
the webmin
Kuja: No :P
amphi, does this command work on ubuntu?: sh start.sh start
Old: er, I'm not on ubuntu atm ;)
amphi guess what
well, does "sh start.sh start" work for debian/ubuntu? Does it even excist?
amphi: i don't know what card it is?  will lspci tell me?
i had to change the first line :O from hd(0,7) to hd(0,6)
and it worked
I think there's where the problem is
didnt touch the root line
hello I need help for install emacs....??
shiity ass dinner
in my ubuntu
Old: you don't need the initial sh if the script is executable
amphi, apt-get remove amule , and apt-get --purge amule doesnt works!!
amphi, what do you mean? what should i write there?
./start.sh start ?
or?
build-essential is not found
HellDragon: that'd help, as (hd0,7) is your swap partition according to fdisk
terry, sudo apt-get install emacs ?
cocox: how did you install it?
cocox: man apt-get might be worth looking at too, BTW
HellDragon: anyway, you have it working
 i got a problem with XMMS it play my song really slow
wtf
3 mins song takes 10 mins to play
thrice I was try this comand but isn't work
what does it say
amphi, i installed it using apt-get install amule
Hahaha
I tried to do a ./start.sh in putty, it's graphical
errr
or something like that, text based atleast, asking questions and other stuff.
cocox: so apt-get remove it
amphi, im looking at the man dpkg an i know how to uninstall but i must have the name of the package
cocox: you know the name of the package - it doesn't change after you install it
Leyendo lista de paquetes... Hecho
Creando rbol de dependencias... Hecho
El paquete amule no esta instalado, no se eliminar
0 actualizados, 0 se instalarn, 0 para eliminar y 0 no actualizados.
amphi, i can't remember what is the name of the package...
cocox: so it's no longer installed
Where can I get dependancies like glib, sh-utils, file-utils, gawk, textutils and bin/sh?
so, there's this nifty litlte "digital out" 8mm plug on my Audigy2 card, i assume that means i can somehow connect it to my home theatre box -- is it supported by linux?
cocox: apt-cache search amule
glibc
amphi but i still have a lot of files about amule.... and i dont know how can i uninstall them
AngryElf,  the digital out can work :P
i use it onmy Audigy2 all the time
may need to twiddle with the sliders/mixer controls.
into a home theatre....so you can get 5.1 from a DVD?
how do i create a screen?
ex, called speedlink ?
xine supports it i assume
cocox porque con el comado apt-get install emacs no lo puedo installar....
!glibc
I haven't a clue, try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, cr1mson
terry, we need an error to help you
!es
Hispanohablantes: Por favor usen #ubuntu-es, #kubuntu-es o #edubuntu-es, alli obtendran mas ayuda.
Old,  care to rephrase that.
do you think if i uninstall cpan and reinstall it will have a make file?
hi all
I need to create a 'screen' called speedlink, what is it? screen -R speedlink ?
oh i forgot: thank you very much for helping me amphi
Dr_Willis, what kind of wire/connection/converter do you use....and into what input on your stereo?
I'm looking for help with agpgart and a radeon 9600
terry, que mensaje te sale ?
omg........ with every music player my songs are slow
wtf
anyone can help me ?
256AV]  (rev 12)
/dev/sda1
HellDragon: yw - it's strange that grub was so misguided - did you move partitions around or something?
wha tis that?
Dr_Willis, I need to create a 'screen' called speedlink, what is it? screen -R speedlink ?
amphi: i just resized a partition with the evil partition magic
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11 Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?
terry, ok, are you using apt-get or synaptic or anything else?
aahhhhh i want my normal sound back
;(
Old,  using screen you can rename the screen sessions. check the screen tutorials.. or you can always edit your .screenrc file and have it create one every time
now I use both
its weird
damn it
Dr_Willis, i want to create a new one called speedlink? I get a error when starting my game-server with webadmin, the error is:Output from command .. No screen session found.
terry, apt-cache search emacs | grep emacs
I guess I have to start a screen called speedlink
but didn't work
a ok
terry, you can only use one at a time
Old,  you sure its not saying you need to have screen running?
Exactly, I think i need a screen running, but how do i run one ?
Old,  it MAY be refering to the 'screen' command.
HellDragon: oh, yes, I'd forgotten that you'd sinned ;)
I need help with my mouse. It sometimes randomly moves around my screen, locks the y-axis and only moves along the x-axis and will randomly click while it moves. Any help?
or it may be using 'screen session in' a rather vague way.
im getting crazy
damn sound
Kuja: All finished, now what?
everything plays at 0.5 speed
Kuja: Reboot?
damnit
HellDragon: it's trying to calm you down ;)
what happened to my sound
even the sound in my games is slow
what happened
Taru: No -- sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Kuja: Okay
Dr_Willis, yes? that's what im talking about i guess?
I've got a question about choosing which build of Ubuntu to install. I've got a Athlon 64 processor, but am I correct in understanding Automatix will not work with that build?
Old,  run 'screen' then in a terminal - i guess
Kuja: Okay it works this time.
how can I open the emacs....???
what happened to my sound !!! nooooooooooooo
Old: it wants you to start a command in screen with a particular session name?
exactly
Taru: Find where it says `Identifier "Generic Video Card"'
Old: screen -S foo will do that
amphi,  somthing seems - odd about that. do ya think?
Taru: And below that line should be a Driver "nv", which you should replace the "nv" with "nvidia" (unless it's already done)
Any mouse help?
amphi, what's dmS ?
-dmS
!pastebin
Dr_Willis: the whole thing seems odd
from memory, pastebin is http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
Old: args to screen - man screen for more ;)
Old: -d means run detached from a tty
nickpresta -- how newbie are you?
Kuja: It's "nv".
k
Taru: Change it to "nvidia"
how to kill all procces including "speedlink" init ?
Taru: Then hit Control+O and Enter
I'm familiar with *nix like systems but I haven't had this problem before or the inner workins of X so I don't know how to fix it/diagnose it.
nickpresta -- do you know how to look at /etc/X11/Xorg.conf ?
yeah
It looks fine to me
Kuja: Okay, done.
Taru: Afterwards, exit nano (Ctrl+X) then type: 'sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start', then you should be at the login screen. At which point you type your username and password.
nickpresta -- take a look see what your mouse driver is listed at there
amphi, how do i kill all procces having "speedlink" in their name ?
Kuja: Okay!
Old: 'pgrep speedlink' will show what pids match speedlink
Old: IMHO, a sane way to do this is to have the script start the server and write the PID to a pidfile in, say, /var/run, and then the stop script will just kill [-9]  `cat /var/run/$PIDFILE`
gave me nada..
Old: 'pkill speedlink' should kill them all im not so used to it but i belive it will.
nickpresta -- it will be near the top under Section "InputDevice"
didnt work
I have a few "screen -R speedlink" running
can anyone help me with ndiswrapper... I have a WG311v3 by NETGEAR, i cannot get this to work... My card is on the compatablity list, but it doesn't appear to work, can anyone please tell me how to get this working? is it even compatable?
Kuja: Okay, I'm just logged in.
Taru: Okay, so now you're inside GNOME?
Taru: If you're on GNOME now, right click on your desktop then click "Create Launcher"
can anyone help me with ndiswrapper... I have a WG311v3 by NETGEAR, i cannot get this to work... My card is on the compatablity list, but it doesn't appear to work, can anyone please tell me how to get this working? is it even compatable?
Kuja: Let me log XChat on my computer now.
Okay
nobody can help me
:(
i tried to reboot, dont work
http://pastebin.com/730405
Kuja: Okay, I'm on GNOME.
You installed X-Chat?
:S
Kuja: Finally on my computer.
Okay cool.
I accidendly deleted some things from the notification area (Speaker icon etc) how do I get them back?
Kuja: It was already there.
Taru: sudo apt-get install gtkpod exfalso
Kuja: Okay.
If someone can help me with this, I will love you forever. It's not much, but it has promise =)
Kuja: Separately?
Taru: Just that entire command
Run it from gnome-terminal
Kuja: I did that and it didn't find it.
Oh.. hmm
im getting crazy
damn sound
Kuja: I ran GTKPOD only.
I've got a question about choosing which build of Ubuntu to install. I've got a Athlon 64 processor, but am I correct in understanding Automatix will not work with that build?
Taru: 'sudo apt-get install gtkpod' -- Doesn't work?
HellDragon, you cant reboot?
you'd sacrifice cpu power just to use automatrix?
!automatrix
Not a clue. Try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, thrice`
Kuja: No, "gtkpod exfalso" together didn't work.
I'm a complete beginer, so yes if that's what it takes to make it look beter, I'd cosider it.
Kuja: Now "sudo apt-get install exfalso" is not working for me.
Taru: Type: sudo apt-get install gtkpod
Kuja: That is done.
Taru: Connect your iPod.
Kuja: It is connected.
I can't even seem to get it to recognise my resolution can go above 1024.
Kuja: "E Couldn't find package exfalso"
Taru: Forget about exfalso for now.
Hi Guys -    I accidendly deleted some things from the notification area (Speaker icon etc) how do I get them back?
Kuja: Okay.
Taru: Type: gtkpod
Kuja: Okay.
Taru: Then see if you can read from your iPod.
Kuja: Yes, that works.
So all your music is there?
Kuja: Let me check.
Kuja: Yes, it's all there.
=)
anyone with any wine experience?
Kuja: Hashed 400/400.
Kuja: Time to remove the horrible songs :P
anyone know why my /dev/dsp is permanently 'busy' even though alsa is supposed to be mixing and emulating oss?
@I_Love_DRM: Right click on your taskbar and click "Add Applet/Application to Panel"
Taru: What horrible songs?
Hi Mau
thrice`: Any idea of how much cpu power I would be sacrificing for asthetics?
Kuja: Placebo.... :P
=== mheath[laptop] _ is now known as mheath[laptop] 
Taru: Screw you

hi there
I_Love_DRM: right click the panel, add to panel
Kuja: Now, why the hell won't exfalso work??
Kuja: What else to download and install?
hoaryLiveCD: damn... hoary is old ;)
hypnox: is your user part of the "audio" group?
yup
Taru: It says there's no installation candidate for exfalso?
suspekt: Is it a wine problem that you have, or should you just set your entire desktop to 640x480 before activating wine?
hypnox: you're sure /dev/dsp permissions are correct?
Kuja, No, but Azureus says that :/
+rw for group audio
yeah - i made a server setup with apache2 using a falsh drive to show people
Taru: Setting up Java is a bit more complicated.
hypnox: what if you just chmod 777 /dev/dsp?
Kuja: "E: Couldnt' find package exfalso"
Kuja: I see.
bur[n] er: yeah - i made a server setup with apache2 using a falsh drive to show people
nope.. its busy not permission problems
hypnox: you perhaps need to use the alsa dmix plugin
hypnox: ok ok, i believe you... i don't know hte answer though :\
Taru: Type: sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
Kuja: Okay.
amphi , am doing, doesnt do it for me yet somehow
bur[n] er: are you a tech?
hoaryLiveCD: in my professional career, yes
hoaryLiveCD: however, i administer windows servers on a day to day basis :\  linux is for fun
Taru: Are there any commented lines that you missed and should be uncommented?
bur[n] er: lol... unprofessional answer
For some reason I can't get mod_userdir to work w/ dapper's apache2 package
bur[n] er: yeah linux is for gurus
hypnox: I tried dmix, it seemed to work, but I like my box to only make one noise at a time  ;)
Kuja: All "deb http:/" and "deb-src" are uncommented.
not exactly true... by any sense of the word guru
hoaryLiveCD: I've installed a few debian machines as simpel samba servers, but that's the extent
Ubuntu is as close to perfect as could be for ANY OS
bur[n] er: do you like windows server better than linux
I need install tomcat on dapper. where I find good howto?
bur[n] er: then you can peacefully liberate their machines when they have to upgrade for vista ;)
hoaryLiveCD: i haven't found a good exchange replacement yet, but I wouldn't say I "like" windows ;)
i was just able to enable ati drivers after trying for days yay !
can u get rhapsity on here
wims, great
later dudes
persistance pays off
amphi: i would love to... ubuntu is soooooooo close... dapper is amazing
this line: Include /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/*.load should be loading up mod_userdir, but everything i can see tells me its not working
but ubuntu kinda limited since its linux
bur[n] er, yes it is and the installer on the live disk rocks
or maybe i just cant do what i want
one little thing, i'm using dual head, but i can't move one program from one screen to the other, i have to keep the window on the screen i started it on, does anybody know how i can change it so that it's basically one big desktop?
limited?
bur[n] er: lol... I just put together this simle script with some folders with pages and data on a flash drive to set up apache2 on LiveCD to introduce some peole to linux
hoaryLiveCD, cool
nomasteryoda|w: i have yet to get espresso to get passed disk partitioning, but it looks promising
how would i make a live cd
er... s/espresso/ubiquity
bur[n] er: lol... yeah
i would like to test linux on my desktop
bur[n] er, if you tried LVM, then that requires a reboot after starting it..
then it will install properly
i have it on my old old old laptop so its veryslow
nomasteryoda|w: lol... yeah
bur[n] er: ISTR reading about something called openexchange, dunno how much of a dropin replacement it is
amphi: openxchange doesn't quite cut it and it's far from free
nomasteryoda|w: are you a tech?
we had that issue yesterday at our LUG meeting where satempler installed Ubuntu dapper F7 over his Kubuntu
Taru: Check the private message I sent you.
bur[n] er: ah, double damn
hoaryLiveCD, Network admin yea
nomasteryoda|w: do you like linux better than win32
can someone help me i wanna get rhapsity on here is it possible?
hoaryLiveCD: if I had clients who needed web servers, there would be no contest... lamp hands down
hoaryLiveCD, yes by all means
mugzie: you could try using "wine" or crossover office
./aticonfig: error while loading shared libraries: libfglrx_pp.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
nomasteryoda|w: yeah! great!
I run Linux everywhere
burner whats wine??
mugzie: also try writing to Real and getting support... they should support you if you're a customer
crossover office isnt free though
Even his Toilet Runs Linux!
!wine
running Ubuntu suse and slax here
wine runs w32 apps
mugzie: wine lets you run windows executables on linux
Slax Live Cd's are dang nifty.
for real
yup
mugzie: with varied success rates
wow
Dr_Willis, ya and MySLax is even cooler
nomasteryoda|w: do you recommend http://www.onlamp.com/
i didnt know that
!wine
theres cedega which has directx apis
but can someone help me here
sure do hoaryLiveCD
how can i get wine?
./aticonfig: error while loading shared libraries: libfglrx_pp.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
www.winehq.org
nomasteryoda|w: lol... great
and thats it then install?
yup
meh
shit happens
mugzie: "wine blah.exe"
I run apache here for my Ampache tunes server
lmao
!tell mugzie about wine
stupid ati control panel in linux
has anyone been sucessful with adding music files from over the network to a media library?
h3h_timo: via samba? yes
bur[n] er, how do you do it?
h3h_timo: drag n drop ;)
unless hes on a mac!!
which wouldnt make sense if he was in #ubuntu
bur[n] er, yeah, but will that acutally add it to the library.. like in rythmbox?
nomasteryoda|w: to download tunes
h3h_timo: open nautilus... ctrl+L... smb://computerwithsharedfiles/music... drag and drop into rhythmbox or something that supports gnomevfs
h3h_timo: you can also do a samba mount
but wine has cannot work on some programs?
it works with most
bur[n] er, will you send that again?? lol somehow it just dissappeared?
lets say i wanted to run like albleton live or fl studios will it run that?
most likeley
h3h_timo: open nautilus... ctrl+L... smb://computerwithsharedfiles/music... drag and drop into rhythmbox or something that supports gnomevfs
h3h_timo: you can also do a samba mount
/usr/X11R6/bin/
http://www.transgaming.com/
that runs everything
sorry about the /usr/X11R6/bin/
bur[n] er, yeah, i tried to just right clik on the share and mount it, but rythmbox couldnt see the mount
ok
hoaryLiveCD, to play them actually... very cool package
h3h_timo: where chances are you didn't mount it correctly.... if it's mounted, any app should work.  amarok, rhythmbox, listen, quodlibet, beep-media-player, xmms, etc.
How do i kill all proccess having speedlink in them ?
bur[n] er, thanks
any one knows a repositorie where i can find the w32codecs?
nomasteryoda|w: sounds vert cool... can i get a looks see
for the 6.06 version
Kuja: I sent so many PMs!
!tell _pm about RestrictedFormats
Someone please?: How do i kill all proccess having speedlink in them ?
Taru: You're not registered.
_pm:  http://mplayerhq.hu download link has some codecs

Old: ps aux | grep speedlink and kill 'em individually; they're all screen processes, no?
sponix: that was is so hard compared to the wiki link
anyone know where i can get libfglrx_pp.so.1
yeah, they're screen processes
Kuja: Well, exfalso package not found yet :/
MorbidHunger: did you follow the wiki about the ati binary drivers?
Is there a way to kill them auto? :)
!tell MorbidHunger about ati
Kuja: Just installed Amarok.
Taru: From IRC, type: "/ns register password", where "password" is your password.
sponix: there is the mplayer in some repositorie?
Old: you can kill all the screen processes...
_pm: check your messages
root 17799 0.0 0.0 4192 1648 ? Ss 03:04 0:00 SCREEN -R speedlink
root 17949 0.0 0.0 3924 996 pts/0 S+ 03:11 0:00 screen -S speedlink
root 17950 0.0 0.0 4188 1628 ? Ss 03:11 0:00 SCREEN -S speedlink
root 19389 0.0 0.0 3060 756 pts/10 S+ 03:41 0:00 grep speedlink
what it says
Kuja: Okay.
that's what it says (Sorry for copy/past)
thats scary
bur[n] er: i read it, but i must play a wmv video
When i kill one it gets back again i think
can i install rpms?
i can play wmvs... did you try totem-xine _pm?
MorbidHunger: yes, via alien
let me try it
MorbidHunger: but it's desirable to find a deb instead of an rpm
Old: try System Monitor and Kill first one
hoaryLiveCD, system monitor?
Old: or just "killall screen"
No i run other screen commands aswell
meh
ill jsut run apt-get
Kuja: Says, "The nickname [Taru]  is already registered."
System Monitor
can I use blackdown's JDK instead of Sun JDK for tomcat?
I dont run graphical ubuntu, I run ubuntu server.
Taru: Haha sucker.
Kuja: ?
Old: you can use "ps ax" and "kill (PID#)"
Taru: Anyways, you made the changes I told you to, right?
Kuja: Yes.
or killall speedlink
Taru: Then from the terminal type: sudo apt-get update
if i install the beta version, how can i update it when the final version comes out? a apt-get upgrade will do the updatE?
Kuja: I did.
Kuja: Doing it again lol.
Kuja: "Done"
Taru, when typing someones name, ex, if he is named "kuja" type, ku then press *tab*, the nick will pop-up
Taru: Now try installing exfalso again.
Old: Okay, thanks ^^
I cannot use sun-j2sdk for dapper. which repository use???
np Taru
Old: I typed "Ku" and pressed *tab* and nothing; ;
hmmm, there seems like there's no wine package for 64 breezy in the wine repository, does that mean i have to get the source and build it myself?
Taru: what client?
exactly, what mirc client are you using... ?
XChat
Taru: Because my nickname is in lowercase.
It doesn't start with 'K', it starts with 'k'
Kuja: Oh!
Taru: xchat does tab completion I believe
kuja, There!
;)
:)
lol
Taru: irssi'll deal with case errors
amphi, Thanks^^
amphi: He's new, better not introduce him to ncurses madness.
lol
amphi, I see^^
kuja: "ncurses's austere beauty", shurely ;)
I give up with webmin
5hours, waste of time.
Old: just use ssh ;)
I cant, it's annoying :((
kuja, "E: Couldn't find package exfalso"
Hm...
I want to give my users access trough a page, so they can start/close their server
Um, is exfalso only in the Dapper repositories? Anyone know?
Old: ah...
easy login, or whatever. 1 account, whatever. I just need it..
is it possible to install the system (dapper flight4) permanently WITHOUT using the espresso  installer?
amphi, you got any clues of how todo an alias? ex ./speedlink would do screen ./hlds_run -game cstrike +maxplayers 12 -port 27031 +map de_dust2 % ?
Old: why not just have the server start at boot time?
amphi
woot, good idea
how todo that? :D
goodmorning
Old: write an init script for it, stick it in /etc/init.d and use update-rc.d to make the runlevel symlinks
anyone know how to turn off how windows redraw while you move them?
Old: you could use an existing script as a skeleton, and modify it
Taru: Not sure what's wrong with exfalso
zenlunatic: I know in openbox ;)
amphi, where is it ?
Old: where is what?
amphi, hey its jhenn
nevermind, how would a init.d script look like ?
kuja, :/
zenlunatic: I suspected as much ;)
Old: look at some of the ones in /etc/init.d
can i use cd /home/blabla and underneeth it start the server ?
Old: why do you need to do that?
amphi, how would it else know where to start the server?
Old: what do you mean, where? Where the binary is?
amphi, the dir is /home/speedlink/ and the command is: ./hlds_run -game cstrike +maxplayers 12 -port 27031 +map de_dust2 %
I dont even know how a init.d script looks like, I looked at it , but i dont know how it works out. Should "PATH=" be init aswell?
Could you perhaps give me an example on pastebin amphi ?
Old: you can specify absolute paths
I'll write one, one second
and show you how i did it
!pastebin
rumour has it, pastebin is http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
yo how do i know whats my user name
Hi... does any body running xgl?
amphi, http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14425 - would this work?
mugzie: whoami
mugzie: type that at a terminal
ok
your bur[n] er
Old: I have no idea, I know nothing about that server
Old: for instance, what is the +map arg? does that need to point at some data file?
amphi, it's a game-server, I just need to know if that looks correctly (dont bother about the ./hlds_run path)
test
omg im still on!??
amph, no no, dont bother about the ./hlds_run line, it's correct
n e 1 c this?
mr_foamfingermak, no
mr_foamfingermak, we dont see it, type something..
Old: why are you using screen?
what should i use? Im new to ubuntu
I feel so pathethic sometimes...
Taru: Try installing Gaim too: sudo apt-get install gaim
screen is a useful tool
Tidus: why would you run a server in screen?
when i type in codes like this one
what should i use iyho ?
 wine "/home/USERNAME/.wine/c/Program Files/Windows Media Player/mplayer2.exe" it says file not found
Old: does it spew messages to the console while it's running?
amphi: so you dont have to leave the terminal open.
yes
but for some reason i dont see internet explorer or anything
how do i run a deb
if i close putty without screen, = the server dies.
Tidus: daemons normally run detached from a terminal
i run game servers in screen all the time.
but most game servers hang on to the terminal
Tidus: oh, ok, perhaps you can help Old
I reckognize you from somewhere Tidus?
kuja, Okay.
kuja, I had to make rice.
Old: dunno...
like we said, it doesnt work for everything
Old: maybe #boinc?
Tidus, where do you work at, do you use qnet?
what is the command to make swap space?
perhaps an old staff member?
kuja, I would leave it out for 1 hour... but someone is coming so I just cook it now.
old: sorry, not any of those.
lol
Ah ok
mkswap ;) there weg o
we go*
kuja, It's going to be hard rice :/
Heh
You suck at rice :P
Tidus, can you help me out , can we join a private channel and talk? As im not authed, and my eyes are starting to hurt becuase of the text in the channel
how do i run a deb
kuja, Well after seeing how you guys do it, I know now.
=P
kuja, But no time atm ; ;
#chat-bla Tidus, if you can, highly appricaited.
MorbidHunger: dpkg -i  foo.deb to install
old: /join #chat1
hello
kuja, Soft rice is much better because you can just keep eating it, hard rice can get full off of ; ;
kuja, Rather unpleasant at that!
You and your silly Filipino cooking style.
Taru: not true!
lol
Hard rice sucks :P
Kyral: Try soft rice ; ;
I know ; ;
I just tried to put away 5 cups of the stuff
lol
DIDN'T HAPPEN!
O.O
!offtopic
Non Ubuntu support related discussions may be carried out in the channel #ubuntu-offtopic. Editor/Language wars are welcome there!
meh
c'mon, its not like there was any active support going on here :P
when using wine do u have to like always have it open or how do u install programs?
=== blanky is now known as blank_
 you have to have win open while running programs?
s/win/wine/
I think most wine users get confused about it or how it works.
doesn't wine work on 64 bit ubuntu ?
you have to use the "wine" program to preface the install command I think
and on some distros it "associates" with wine automagically
but I have no clue, I don't use Wien
wine even
so letssay i wanna install windows media player 9 how would i do that
hey, my second HD on my new install of UBUNTU seems to be mounted as Root, making it so that I effectively cant use it for anything, I can make folders in it, but not any other files, any ideas on how to fix?
how do i force the intall of a .deb
mugzie: Install VLC :P
MorbidHunger: not wise
true
i dont have chkconfig installed by default.. whats the equivalent in ubuntu?
anyway to tweak which daemons i want to enable.. etc.
um naw i just wanted windows 11 i just used 9 as a example
kuja, Gaim was already installed to the newest version.
Okay cool.
kuja, I want exfalso!
You can run it if you want to get on MSN.
T`: sysvconf?
MorbidHunger, dpkg --force-help
T`: or something like that
dont hqave that either.. hmm
T`: you have to install it :P
so i just install a program regularly with wine
?
hey guys I'm installing ubuntu for the first time and came to a problem. What is "postinst warning: overwriting possible-customised configuration file"?
MorbidHunger: why do you want to force it?
=== Compuqiz is now known as Compuwiz
mugzie, first off, you can't install EVERYTHING with wine
mugzie, it has to be supported.
yea i understand that
i cant seem to get the ati control panel working. so i got the file that it said it needed and it wont install
hmmm is paltalk supported
?
mugzie, go to the wine website for a list of supported programs.
Compuwiz: if it's a first install, you can ignore that IMHO
brb
whats the wine website again hehe
the power of google is awesome.
www.winehq.com
thanks
heh.
any ideas on how to make my second HD accessible to all users?
yeah it is the first install
any ideas on how to make my second HD accessible to me?
but now I'm stuck at a command prompt and I dont know how to continue
MorbidHunger, if it won't install, forcing it will not make it work.
it says it cant overrite some file
where the supported programz list located at?
perhaps permissions are bad? And make sure you *want* it to overwrite that file. (whatever it may be)
meh
so I need to change the permissions of that one file?
is there a package for gimp 2.3?
anyone running ubuntu on a laptop?
Compuwiz, that was my reply for MorbidHunger not you
oh, haha. my bad
!tell T` about ask
i'm curious if you guys do any harddisk power management
T`: I use hdparm to spin down the disk here
ok the program is ok paltalk is supported so do i just install regular o how would i do that?
amphi, manually?
amphi, or you run the daemon?
i see soemthing in /etc/init.d
T`: no, an acpi script sets the timeout
amphi, umm i c.. where can i find that? think you can help me set that up please?
=== thev is now known as theverant
mugzie, looks like you need to read about using wine. Please do so.
T`: look at the scripts under /etc/acpi
Why is that I cannot connect to my hotmail through konqueror? I give the right passw but it don't access my account? I think it is about certificate, but i do not know how to set up them.
amphi, i got a bunch of them
T`: there may well be a gui tool in gnome for this; I wrote my scripts myself
kuja, To move all my songs to my harddrive from i-pod, do I extract them from database?
theres a winechat right?
...any ideas how to fix the postinst error?
mugzie: http://www.winehq.org/site/howto
Taru: Probably
amphi, are these scripts executed when you press buttons or something? where are those hooks?
kuja, Okay.
or perhaps acpi events
is there a way to edit the gnome keychain
T`: pm?
sure
hi all
New user here, I'm running this from a cd, is there any way to get to my hard drive?
Quartlow, yes, get the install cd, and then run the installer
T`: bah, you're not identified to services
oops.. sec
anyony here can help me on how can i repair my grub?
amphi, actually i am
h3h_timo, so it can't be done from the live cd then?
-NickServ- You have already identified
Quartlow, not to my knowledge
Cool, thanks for the quick answer. h3h. I snooped around and couldn't figure it out.
how do I get my cups client to show printers that are broadcast/shared on the network ?
Quartlow, there should be an icon from your desktop... double click on that and it should run esspresso installer....unless you have an older version of ubuntu, but i know dapper has it... does breezy too
kuja, It is saying that the songs did not match file type and so it will not export all my songs...
Quartlow, maybe ^^ that works
lol
Wonder what happened to my songs on my i-pod.
Taru: Err, figure it out later.
\
I think I need to try and sleep a little bit now
Laser the only one on the dektop is one for the cdrom.

Peace Kuja!
how can i repair my grub? i can boot to my ubuntu when i installed windows.. anyone can help me?
Quartlow what version of the Ubuntu live CD do you have
Taru: Just leave your computer on.
kuja, lol
can I create a new partition in my empty space on the same drive that my running ubuntu is on?
Good question, I just downloaded the iso yesterday and this only the second time i've used it. Kind of test driving
2.21
how can i repair my grub? i can boot to my ubuntu when i installed windows.. anyone can help me?
Quartlow:  It should definitely be possible to access your hard drive from the live CD.  It's also very likely to be read-only access.  How easy it'll be to set up is another question
how do you open the gnome keychain?
10/30/2005
!tell tagabasak_ about grub
anyone here hi.. i installed ati drivers.. now i installed cedega im running diablo 2 a windows 98 game with 8mb video and im lagging my FPS are suuky in the game..
Anyone know why I cannot apt-get frostwire or exfalso?
!exfalso
h3h_timo: Not a clue. Try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/
Keeps saying "E: Couldn't find package frostwire"
what is exfalso
exfalso yes please!
Managu, read only would be fine. I just wanted access to my bookmarks, some jpg and mp3 files.
I just want to get more familar with it before I go trying to install it
exfalso is a program that allows you to organize song tabs and stuff.
ladies and gents, good evening
I have a little question
h3h_timo, Like make all your songs look neat and in good order in your computer and i-pod.
why is it that my at jobs seem to hang when they were issued by my normal user, while it all works wonderfully well when issued by root?
quartlow: I don't know offhand how to find the partition using the gui.  From the command line, you can "sudo fdisk -l" (careful, dangerous command if mistyped! that's a lowercase L) to find the partition name of your windows drive.  If you've got nothing special installed and only 1 hard drive, it's probably /dev/hda1 (first partition on primary master drive).
I DID something weird tonight...
it's kinda driving me nuts, my username isn't listen in /etc/at.deny, but my at jobs seem to run forever without actually doing anything
i was sitting in an caf in san francisco, typing esperanto in a jabber conference room on my nokia 770 over a wi-fi connection.
mnt
=== rayonp is now known as Cadaveria
i've got a ipod problem. i'm using 5.10 and installed banshee and gtkpod but my computer isn't registering the ipod properly
Mangu, I tried the mount command, once I found a terminal. as mount /dev/hda1 . and got the response can't find /dev/hda1 in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab
Quartlow, is your partition an NTFS or a FAT one?
quartlow: "sudo mount /dev/hda /mnt -o umask=777"
in the wiki it mentions something for hoary and i was thinking of trying it, is it a bad idea-- does anyone have any ideas?
quartlow: sorry, /dev/hda1 instead of /dev/hda
Mang, the sudo mount line returned this,,, you must specify file system type
http://www.hilineeng.com/electrical_controls/food_processing/food_processing.jpg
quartlow: that's unfortunate.  Even with the correction I made?
PsYchotic , i'm guessing fat since it has windows installed
hey i just installed something but i dont see it in my application where are the stuff i installed at with wine?
a newbie question here, what is the default root password for ubuntu live cd 5.10?
coz if it's fat, you need to mount it like this "sudo mount -t vfat /dev/hda1 /media/whatever -o umask=777"
ok sorry Manugo, now I get no such file or directory
tagabasak_: there is no root password
anyone know
Managu, ok thnx
how can i setup printers? whats the Gnome program to do it? i dont use Gnome so i need to know the progrma name..
mugzie: ~/.wine/c_drive/Program Files/
Managu, how can i use the root privilegde
mugzie: or something similar
!root
Direct login as the root user is disabled in Ubuntu. Look at http://wiki.ubuntu.com/RootSudo for all information.
Managu, when i typed su it ask me to enter a password?
in terminal and there a way to add it to my start bar or something?
tagabasak_: yup.  And since there's no root password, "su" will always fail.
tagabasak_: in the 'expert' install you can set it up to have a root password (i did this time, on accident)
Managu, ok i get it now, i just type sudo -i
tagabasak_: you would use sudo in stead, and if you REALLY want it you can do sudo passwd
Can someone help me with printing?
Quartlow: which isn't found?  /dev/hda1 or /mnt?
pianoboy3333: i'm in the same boat, i dont use Gnome and dont know the program to setup up printers :/
Managu, ok i get it now, i just type sudo -i
Quartlow: even better... what command did you decide on, exactly?
=== sub|at|alpopel is now known as sub|off
tagabasak_: well, yes, that's an option.  Though spending all ones time as the root user is generally considered poor practice.
rinting (I believe)
im so confused
eggzeck: that would make sense if i used gnome, but i dont (which is hte issue)
does anyone have any usb device/ipod knowledge that they could share?
itrebal, oh I'm so sorry, I didn't read up
mugzie: wine doesn't integrate incredibly well with the gui.  If that sort of integration is important, you might investigate commercial software like CrossoverOffice or Cedega
OK Mangu now I get  mount point media/hda1 does not exist
Can someone help me with printing?
ok but i just wana know how to open the program i just installed aka paltalk
Quartlow: what command did you decide on?  Could you type it here, letter by letter?
how do you add a disk permanently via the disks manager?
mugzie: probably the easiest thing to do is (a) cd to it's installed directory, and (b) run its executable with "wine blah.exe".
pianoboy3333: nobody can help if they don't know whats wrong
ok it shows it installed
mugzie or possibly even using nautilus -- I think there's an association installed by default
are there no Gimp 2.3 packages in apt-get?
does any body here runs xgl?
mugzie: what shows who installed, and how?
managu im so confused what ur saying lol im so new to this
this one,,,sudo mount -t vfat /dev/hda1 /media/hda1 -o umask=777
rinters
in the maine menu of winetools i hit installed programs and it shows the program
hell, i'll go into gnome :/
all i wanna know is how can i open it is there a shortcut or what
mugzie: I'm probably not gonna be much help then, sorry.
Looking to install Ubuntu 5.10 on an old compaq PIII 500 with an odd notebook style CD-ROM CD-224E (Teac 24x).  Could someone advise what would be the best driver to use?  Generic is awful slow
I am having an error on installation: "Failed to start the X server (your ghapical interface). It is likely that it is not set up correctly. Would you like to view the X server output to diagose the pronblem?" I have tried the command [sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg]  again to try re-configure and try different values, but nothing. The error happens on the page asking about the color depth, I tried the default of 24 and went all 
Aphostile: driver for what?
Quartlow: what happens when you try "sudo mount /dev/hda1 /mnt -o umask=777"
I not found sun's java SDK on dapper. I enabled multiverse, universe. howto install sun's java SDK?
CD-rom
Aphostile: is dma enabled?
oh shit, wrong error
no error that time Managu!! just came back with a command line.
quartlow: If there's an error message, and you don't completely understand it, then copying the error message right down to the letter is important, as it is much more helpful for us to diagnose what's going on.
it's a dma device, yes.  I have not gone thru with the install yet because of the CD-Rom troubles with the live
I am having an error on installation: "xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possible-customised configuration file" I have tried the command [sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg]  again to try re-configure and try different values, but nothing. The error happens on the page asking about the color depth, I tried the default of 24 and went all the way down to 8 bits and it still crashes. Any suggestions?
there, that is the write error. my mistake
ilesystem.  Look under the "mnt" folder
so banshee will get the mp3 info from the ipod but be unable to play them and i can't eject the ipod, it only (improperly) unmounts. breezy (with banshee or gtkpod) is supposed to be able to deal with ipods
does ati has problems with cedega?
Compuwiz: It would probably be quite helpful if you could pastebin, or otherwise give us all a copy of your /var/log/Xorg.0.log
ok. its there, but when I click on it it tells me "you do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "mnt"
Compuwiz: I realize that might be a bit tricky when you lack a gui, of course.
Aphostile: you could google and see if there's a specific driver for it
Yeah I wasn't having much luck there
haha, yeah I have no idea how to do that....
Quartlow: hrmm.  /bonk me, I got the command wrong.  "sudo umount /mnt"  and then "sudo mount /dev/hda1 /mnt -o umask=000"
LOL
especially when my computer that im installing linux on isnt connected to any internet/network...
Hey amphi, care to know what fixed my wireless?
Compuwiz: oh?  Getting it connected to a network would definitely be helpful
Compuwiz: there really isn't enough information in the stuff you've pasted above to diagnose your problem
haha, getting it installed would be a better step first
uhm
let me see if I can get more information
!tell compuwiz about flood
Good job Managu!!!!!!!!!
Quartlow: that task should be easier, and I'm not sure why there wasn't just an icon on your desktop to do all that
quartlow: but then, I'm only really an intermediate user
it seems like perhaps r*dh*t supports it but they suck
well I'm only a second time user, so you look like an expert to me
now I just have to write that command down
haha thanks, I get a little [enter] happy online. here is a path it gives me for the file. /ect/X11/xorg.conf.#############
?
can anyone tell me why this command: "sudo tar zcvf backup myhomedir/ --exclude=myhomedir/.gconf" doesnt exclude correctly, but "sudo tar zcvf backup myhomedir/* --exclude=myhomedir/.gconf" (note the * after myhomedir) does?
is there any way to get the disks manager to add to /etc/fstab?
or should I just do it directly
can someone help me with a HD problem?
Well slow and the no eject thing but there is a program to solve that no?
Compuwiz: you want to look through /var/log/Xorg.0.log for lines that start with "(EE)".  One way to do that is to type "less /var/log/Xorg.0.log" and then press the keys [/]  [E]  [E]  [Enter] 
I am a bit of a Linux newbie... I had red hat installed once awhile back...  and i have worked with linux before so I'm not like totally clueless
:)
?
you have at least 'skimmed the manual' lol.
it won't eject the cds
okay I will try that
if a program is accessing the cd they will be 'locked'
Aphostile: it won't eject a live cd (unless you use the cp to ramdisk option (if it has one))
Well I've been a unix computer operator for years so I do know a little
many live cds have a 'toram' option you can use at boot time.
Manago and psYchotic... Thanks for the help!!!!!!! Now I can play around some
Quartlow: have fun =)
ahh ok
oh i will
well i guess ill just go ahead with the slowness and work my way out... i have the sound card params
thanks
hi
i have a p3 1ghz 256 ram well breezy run fine?
should run 'ok'
OPP: might be a little slow in the graphics department, but otherwise should be fine.
Aphostile: once you have ubuntu installed, you may be able to tweak it
may want to use a light weight window manager.  (like xfce)
ya
i dont want to do games or anything
just like watch movies or play music
OPP: openbox is pleasant
openbox, is that a window manageR?
one of the many XYXbox variants. FLuxbox, openbox, blackbox.. but MatchBox is Not related to the other Box's :P
i'm having troubles with my repositories
cool
I've got some major install problems... I've tried installing dapper flight 5 and breezy both from working cd's.  breezy gets to the first reboot and then fails to load the kernel, so I edit the path to / instead of /boot and it loads but then fails to load some important modules and then I get 'can't access tty; job control turned off' i have a shell but it can't do much.
will drake run  you think?
dapper fails installing the base system chroot fails because it can't find apt-get
metalhedd, did you test the discs ?
yes
both good
what partitioning did you use?
How can I download and install java through command line?
OPP: just install stable, and dist-upgrade when dapper is stable ;)
!java
To install Java/Sun Java see Java on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats and also see !javadebs
MY SYNAPTIC IS NOT WORKING PLEASE CHECK OUT THIS ERROR http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14427
Thank you ^^
Cryptid: please don't shout
amphi, please help
im getting 5.10
/dev/hda1 is /boot and /dev/hda4 is /  the disk is not totally clean thoguh. i have a dir on hda4 that I saved all my media on, and for some reason theres a file with a wierd name that I can't delete in /etc/rc1.d
Managu I found an EE on the log, its funny "No devices detected"........even though it automatically detected my card and it is listed in the log also. Is this due to the page where it asks me to locate the position of it like PCI location and such? Also, stupid question...I did what you said, and now I cannot exit out of that log?
Compuwiz: press Q to quit
haha
where do i get info on what plug-ins to use to connect to windows media streamlink
nomasteryoda|w, ^^ incase you missed it, I didn't put your name sorry.
Compuwiz: I'd definitely leave the PCI id part empty when asked
Howdy all
okay, I'll try that.
Cryptid: I've disabled my trackpad, so I have no idea ;)
Which Java do I download and install?
metalhedd,  i saw your posting
nomasteryoda|w, ok, any ideas?
amphi, i am stuck i need to install some software and i am not able to what could possible be the probleM?
oh, and i would back up and format if it was possible to burn a dvd in the drive where this livecd is running right now.
can I do that?
Cryptid, try installing it from the commandline and tell us the error message
=== linux_newbie is now known as linux_newbie2
I have done that with slax, but not ubuntu live cd
is there a program to allow me to set mount points of hard drives?
isks
sorry I'm using xfce so I'll need to install something
I'm having problems installing Ubuntu and I've managed to screw up the GRUB that I had set up...can anyone help me get GRUB set back up so I can get back into windows?
metalhedd, how do i install it from command line??? sudo apt-get synaptic????
Can anyone recommend a multimedia authoring program for linux?
Cryptid, sudo apt-get install packagename
is there apt-get for vnc?
mjg: audacity
mjg: audio?
mjg: kino is good for making DVD's
movies rather
is it easy to make desktop icons in openbox
Rug. Looking for something like authorware. A high level tool to build interactive educational simulations
Managu,can u help me repairing my grub?..i followed the wiki but still wont work.need your help
metalhedd, please check out the error i got http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14428
ahh sorry
is there apt-get for vnc?
tagabasak_, can you boot with "root= "?
I also need help repairing GRUB *please*
dli, im booting on live cd..
dli, i got a root priviledge now
tagabasak_, no, booting with " root=/dev/blahblah" kernel parameter
Rug: That's what I thought. Not much available. Might be possible to build a toolbox in something like pygame.
tagabasak_, you know your hdd / partition?
Managu same problem again, I left it blank like ya said. checked the log and this time "ATI: PCI Mach64 at location 5:0:0 and 5:0:1 could not be detected" Even though when it detected the correct card, the ATI X800...
Cryptid: have you done sudo apt-get update ?
dli, dnt know about it.. sorry, my case is i dual boot i installedubuntu first then i  installed windows after.
wuwuw
amphi, ya i have done even that and this is the error i get for that http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14429
I got printer sharing going!!!
YAY!
lol
s!ping
I pulled an old hd that had windows xp loaded on it.  any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
!ping
pong
ouch you can mount it lowroad
tagabasak_, okay, you need to know you hdd partitions, play with commands, " fdisk -l /dev/hda "
it is in an extermal cage
IDE?
mr_foamfingermak, i did that, but i mean to load the emails to ubuntu thunderbird
you should be able to mount a windows volume
ahh ok
amphi, where is the file situated where are the repositories are stored??
Is there any type of import wizard?
Cryptid: wtf? why is it trying to connect to localhost?
dli, my linux partitions is on /dev/hda2 and my windows is on /dev/hda3/
Cryptid: /etc/apt/sources.list
amphi, i duuno?
hey all!
hello
I have a somewhat strange question..
I'm interested in working on various issues relating to medicine and free software in Africa.
no the pinapple will not fit all the way in...
XD
any1 can help me with installation of qt4?
lol
specifically, there's a project relating to 'online learning software' that would be interesting to try to get some free software expertise on.
tagabasak_, okay, " mkdir /mnt/hda2 && mount /dev/hda2 /mnt/hda2 "
tagabasak_: sorry, those wiki articles have much better info than I have
It seems the most likely candidate is Shuttleworth.. Is there some way to contact him directly?
Or should I just go to church, look up and speak directly ? : )
metalhedd, did u find any solution for my problem???
orangey: heh
mr_foamfingermak: hehehehe ; )
=== xsmogx is now known as smog
I pulled an old hd that had windows xp loaded on it.  any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
Compuwiz: ancient card, ehh?
amphi: To be honest, I wouldn't even ask, but when I wanted to talk to RMS about http://blogs.zmag.org (the blog for a large left publication that we were trying to take free software), I emailed him and he responded..
Cryptid, sudo apt-get update
with nothing else after update
mdli, got it now
ny1 knows how to package python code?
dli,got it now
metalhedd, i get this error when i execute that command http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14429
metalhedd: should we not encourage the use of synaptic for this?
tagabasak_,  " chroot /mnt/hda2 /bin/bash --login "
orangey: it's worth a try, but I don't have his email addr
amphi: I can't really find an email address for him is the thing.
orangey: what happened with zmag?
any suggestions where I might find it?
orangey, synaptic doesn't give very useful error messages
amphi: blogs.z is now running drupal. The whole project is expected to go to free software by jan 1 2007.
dli,done
orangey: google? (ie. no idea, sorry)
orangey: cool
Cryptid, sorry, I'm on a liveCD. the browser takes about 1.5 minutes to launch
orangey: https://launchpad.net/people/sabdfl
amphi: If you're interested in joining the project, check out http://znet.2y.net , or email me directly.
tagabasak_, check whether your /boot directory is okay, in the same terminal, " ls -l /boot/ "
hey does any1 know if executables created in linux can be executed in windows?
metalhedd, shit man i guess i will come back some other time i might get some help then
metalhedd, amphi bye
derek__: generally (almost always) the answer is "no"
dli,  owner=root group=root
ok thx
tagabasak_, what about files under /boot/ ?
I pulled an old hd that had windows xp loaded on it.  any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
how can i know the name of a .deb package for uninstall it ??, for example if i install once amsn and now i need to uninstall it, how can i know the complete name of the package ??
tagabasak_, okay, " grub-install /dev/hda "
!apt-get
[apt-get]  http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/apt-howto/apt-howto.en.txt (in depth) and https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AptGetHowto
cocox: alternately, you might use Synaptic to uninstall it
cocox: probably save you a bit of headache
bimberi: thank you. It seems like his email address is hard to come by, but perhaps I'll contact the shuttleworth foundation and see how that goes.
dli,a second
Managu, but there is a way using script by console ??
cocox: sure.  That was what Dr_Willis offered, via ubotu.  Here's a repeat
!tell cocox about apt-get
orangey: there are email addresses on that page (bottom left)
hola
bimberi: aha! Thank you.
Managu, of course thnx but my question was in the beggining how can i know the name of the package that i installed once , plz be patient
any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
cocox: brief summary: use "apt-cache search blahpackagestiff" to get the package name (less any version info, dates, builds, etc), then "apt-get remove package name"
=== Smokeh is now known as lolipod
orangey: np :)
I pulled an old hd that had windows xp loaded on it.  any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
history
Managu, i'll check this howto thank u !!
cocox: I suppose I don't understand.  If this is a one-time thing, why not just use the gui tools?
Managu, yes but i prefer to get involve with the console commands for use them anytime without a GUI
Cocox: *shrug* ok, as you like it.  Right tool for the job and all.
cocox: good on yer ;)
amphi, i didnt understand your phrase lol
cocox: no worries
Managu, thank u ;)
dli, i got an error, it says that /dev/hda does not have corresponding bios drive
heh, me either.  I took it as a cross between "good for you" and "looks good on you"
can anyone help me please, I need to get GRUB fixed
linux_newbie2: read the wiki howtos?
tagabasak_, sorry, my fault
Managu: where?
tagabasak_, " exit "
!tell linux_newbie2 about grub
dli, ok
tagabasak_, try again
tagabasak_, " mount -o bind /proc /mnt/hda2/proc "
dli,try what?
dli, ok
tagabasak_, " mount -o bind /dev /mnt/hda2/dev "
tagabasak_, " chroot /mnt/hda2 /bin/bash --login "
hey waht do you make of this?     mkisofs: broken pipe. cannot fwrite
hi
this when i try to burn a cd
what version of python is installed in the ubuntu live cd ?
vars: I'd make a coaster out of it
What's a good limewire client?
!limewire
first you need !java, then download the http://www.limewire.com/LimeWireSoftOther and unpack it. Then just run the runLime.sh file. Voila. Consider !frostwire as an alternative.
is there a way i can rip the audio tracks only from my dvd?
tagabasak_,  and now, within chroot, " grub-install /dev/hda "
anybody who knows what python version is installed in the live cd ?
how do i tell if a firewall is up or not
I pulled an old hd that had windows xp loaded on it.  any idea on best way to extract the emails on thunderbird to my ubuntu thunderbird?
dli, do i have to make direcory proc on my dev/hda2?
floppyears: pretty sure it's 2.4
Madpilot: Is there no KDE limewire client? Or any Linux native client?
Managu, anyway to stop making coasters?
tagabasak_, you should have " /mnt/hda2/proc " already
thanks bimberi
Papageno, no idea, I don't run the thing myself
floppyears: np :)
vars: slow machine?
vars: or old/cheap cd-writer?
i don't think so it has burned before
yeah old cd-r
haven't used it in a while
dli, too bad i dont have =(
dli, why i dnt have that directory?
tagabasak_, mkdir
vars: No specific details, but it looks like your system can't take building the iso image and burning it simultaneously.  Things might work better if you did those seperately
humm
thanks
!frostwire
how can i screen capture in mplayer?
methinks frostwire is a free peer-to-peer application that runs on the Gnutella network. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrostWireHowTo
mikebot, run mplayer like, "mplayer -vo x11 "
I have to ask.. where does this "OMG PONIES" inside joke come from?
orangey, have you ever been around a 6 year lod girl?
lod?
=old
Ok. so they like ponies..
Untill they see how dirty the things are.
:P
It's not new as I can recall from my childhood. how did we get involved?
dli, sorry?
Managu, no dice
i tried to burn from a iso
vars: are the HD and the CD-R on the same IDE controller?
dli, what do you mean by within chroot?
how would i open the home directory in the terminal?
tagabasak_, after the command chroot
it's a laptop so i think so
dli,ok
how do i tell if a firewall is up or not
i'm trying to ssh in and it says the connection is refused
Hello everyone, I am kinda new (totally actually) to linux, I am looking for some assistance in setting up a LVM share, so I can place my cross platform media onto one machine, would anyone mind feilding a few questions?
mugzie, open a term an hit ls
vars: I'm a bit confused -- you certainly get a different error, no?  mkisofs shouldn't be involved at all
!ssh
ssh is, like, totally, https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SSHHowto or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/AdvancedOpenSSH
i got that error once
dli,it say cannot change root directory to grub-install
so the mkisofs what does that refer to?
help
vars: mkisofs is a program which creates an .iso image from a bunch of files
I have two SATA 300 GB Drives,  I want to make the empty space ( / )on the SDA and the whole new SDB drive span together into one big 500GB volume, so iTunes enjoys the placement of a single folder
|Sivik|, most likely you don't have an ssh server installed
vars: literally "make ISO filesystem"
Since my SDB is empty, should I make the 8E a primary or a Logical partition?
i pressed ls but i dont get the pop up i wanna delete somthing in there
im weird
vars: to burn an iso, just do cdrecord foo.iso (assuming /etc/default/cdrecord is correct)
eggzeck: ok
ok
how would i do that get the home to open in a window? in terminal
|Sivik|, sudo apt-get install openssh-server
home
no, im weird im weird
i ate one of my keyboard
How do I install frostwire ?
tagabasak_, can you run " grub ", instead ?
im weird
|Sivik|, once that's done, you should be able to ssh into the box. :)
where can i find a technical help for ubuntu?
i ate one of my keyboard key
!frostwire
it has been said that frostwire is a free peer-to-peer application that runs on the Gnutella network. See https://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrostWireHowTo
k
the number between 3 and 5
im weird
mugzie: if you really are averse to using the mouse, you can open the menus with alt-f1
Managu: I looked over those wiki help pages, but the I'm not sure which steps to use.  I've removed GRUB from the MBR and don't have Ubuntu installed on any partition, although I have partitions for it set up.  I am currently on a Knoppix live CD
Thank you ^^
eggzeck, i knew i was missing something, but i couldn't remember
im weir dim weirdir mei rwmiwmdi wmdiwe
dli, im on grub now
amphi,  well that gave me some new errors   9 cdrecord  fo.iso
|Sivik|, hehe, cool. I sometimes forget things too. :)
no managu i have to do it through terminal cause im on ice lite
eggzeck, thanks a bunch
|Sivik|, you're welcome.
mugzie: hrmm.  "nautilus &" , perhaps
amphi, where could i find technical help for ubuntu?
eggzeck, its now saying that the host key verification failed
Empty Secondary hard drive, and I am making it one big partition to add to my LVM, do I want to make it a primary or logical partition???
lendyl: what do you mean? you could ask in the channel...
has anyone here successfully got windows media to play in ubuntu?
elp...
linux_newbie2: actually, dli and tagabasak_ are tackling a very, very similar problem.  You might want to scroll back and look at some of their conversation
|Sivik|, and then?
ahhh... ok
it goes back to the #
disinterseted_pe, wmv & wma files? of course.
dli,what should i do next?
linux_newbie2: oh, wait.  Hold on, I'm confused
ok what packages do i need to install for them?
tagabasak_, within grub ?
linux_newbie2: what is it you're trying to accomplish?
ubotu, tell disinterseted_pe about restricted
dli,yup
amph cd record is looking for a -scsi   and telling me that thje 2.6 kernal hates it
eggzeck, it talks about some crap about "IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SOMEONE IS DOING SOMETHING NASTY" and a bunch of other crap and then says Host key verification failed
tagabasak_, " find /etc/hosts "
vars: it's scsi or ide?
tagabasak_, we want to double check, it's hd0
ide
Managu: the only OS I have set up successfully right now is Windows...I am just trying to get the MBR back in order so I can get into it, for starters
ssh ?
ive been there
in a gateway laptop i am 100% sure that is ide right
HymnToLife, yes
Managu: then I have to figure out why Ubuntu won't install :P
linux_newbie2: have a Windows boot disk?
vars: do cdrecord dev=ATA -scanbus
Managu: yes
dli,file not found
rm ~/.ssh/known_hosts
tagabasak_, you didn't typo ?
disinterseted_pe, see the w32codecs info on that RestrictedFormats site
Managu: I tried fixboot and fixmbr and it can't boot the os
linux_newbie2: I knew what to do with windows9x; I don't know how windows2k+ work.
dli, what is typo?
tagabasak_, maybe, " find /boot/grub/menu.lst "
HymnToLife, and then try ssh again?
dli, sorry im really a newbie
linux_newbie2: but, honestly, the problem isn't a linux problem.  You need to reinstall the windows MBR
ok ty
vars: take the number and put a line in /etc/default/cdrecord like CRD_DEVICE=ATA:1,0,0 where the '1,0,0' are the numbers that command shows you
yep
is this where yuo can go for help?
HymnToLife, same thing
Managu: I agree
run the command on the client, not the server
Managu: I thought maybe I could get GRUB back up and use that though
vars: then you won't need to specify the device to cdrecord every time
Managu: since it used to work before I screwed up my linux partition
linux_newbie2: hrmm, I suppose that's a possibility.
HymnToLife, already doing that, can a server not be a client for something else?
IS this where you go for help?
dli, w8 did you mean that i should be on grub prompt?
linux_newbie2: lemme see
ubotu, sudo dpkg -i FrostWire-4.10.9-1.i586.deb, will not work why?
let me try something
Not a clue. Try searching at http://ubuntu.cc.com.au/, Taru
Mr, it is - just ask a question, don't ask to ask
tagabasak_, yes, within grub
how do you "upgrade" releases?
I doubt it, funny though, whenever I get that message, deleting known_hosts does the trick
Taru, ubotu is a bot...
linux_newbie2: from a root command line, how bout you run "grub"
Mr: depends on the help
grub
linux_newbie2 (and pray that knoppix has grub)
gnome- and XGL rulez in ubuntu
:)
Managu: done
HymnToLife, i have ssh server installed on this machine as well as the laptop and i can log in from the desktop to the laptop but not the laptop to the desktop
HymnToLife, i get that error
I used gnome and xgl in suse and in ubuntu is better starnge maybe bacause we use gnome 2.14
ubotu, Thank you ^^
no problem, Taru
HymnToLife, can you tell me the right repo needed to install mplayer?
tried running the command on both ?
dli, still not found =(
linux_newbie2: put it on your hard drive.  It's been a while since I did this, so I might not be remembering the incantations correctly.  Also keep in mind that we're in data-loss mode, so things could get better or they could get worse
HymnToLife, no
Atopounce: i am having problems getting my display to work properly
universe if I remeber well
!info mplayer-586
mplayer-586: (The Ultimate Movie Player For Linux), section multiverse/graphics, is extra. Version: 1:1.0-pre7cvs20050716-0.1ubuntu9.1 (breezy), Packaged size: 3526 kB, Installed size: 7940 kB
linux_newbie2: I believe the grub command you want is "setup (hd0)"
tagabasak_, leave it there, open another terminal, " cd /mnt/hda2 "
my bad, it's multiverse
Mr: what are the problems?
HymnToLife, yes, but what is the url and stuff for the multiverse
tagabasak_, " ls -l etc/hosts ", " ls -l boot/grub/ "
Managu: Error 12: Invalid device requested
it should be in your sources.list, just uncomment the lenes mentioning it
Managu: is it setup (hd0, 0)?
HymnToLife, already did that, still doesn't find it
Question: I installed krusader 1.7 even though Breezy/Dapper use krusader 1.6 (which doesn't work for me).  I have to use the --ignore-depends option, as in  "dpkg --ignore-depends=kdelibs4c2 -i /boxln/root/apt/archives/krusader_1.70.0-0kubuntu1_i386.deb" to get it to ignore the dependency problem.  But every time I try to install something else, apt-get tries to get rid of krusader.  What can I do to tell apt-get to continue ignor
i purchased some tv shows on dvd. i'd like to rip the commentary tracks only (i.e. no video) is there a way to do this?
AMD64 ?
amphi, the cdrom is at /dev/hdc   what does that tell me?   and the dev=ATA   looks on /dev/hda
linux_newbie2: no, that would be a bad idea
!pastebin
I heard pastebin is http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
HymnToLife, nope
I tried using "pinning" in /etc/apt/preferences, but now apt-get won't install anything else.
hi. anyone knows of a good anime wallpaper site? something that compares to www.sexydesktop.co.uk?
linux_newbie2: that would wipe out your windows partition's boot sector, and you'd be back at reinstalling from there
sorry i guess this belongs in #ubuntu-offtopic... nm
pppoe_dude,  :P you pervert. :P
what happens when you sudo apt-get install mplayer-586 ?
Managu: eep! ok
dli, igot /etc/hosts
pppoe_dude,  heh -  let me check my bookmarks :)
vars: wtf? pastebin the output of cdrecord dev=ATA -scanbus
The resolution is at 640 X 400, its a 19" LCD capable of 1280 X 1040; i tried changing it through the settings (only 640X400 was avaliable) and i edited the xorg.conf file deleting all but 1280 X 1040
linux_newbie2: hrmm.  I guess you "quit"
Dr_Willis: lol
madpiolt so does that mean its not possible without paying for the media player?
linux_newbie2: and try "grub_setup /dev/hda"
tagabasak_, no, " ls -l /mnt/hda2/etc/hosts "
Managu: grub_setup: command not found
Mr: have you tried 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg'?
Mr, sounds like a driver problem or a video-bios related problem
linux_newbie2: err, guess it's "grub-install /dev/hda"
HymnToLife, http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14430
yah i tried it
dli, i dont have grub folder on /boot
i read it in the comment of the conf file
nothing
HymnToLife, thats my current sources.list plus a small error that i'm getting
tagabasak_, not /boot, /mnt/hda2/boot/grub/
Managu: could not find device for /boot: Not found or not a block device
i have foedora and never had a problem
Mr: what is your video card?
I know the error you're getting
HymnToLife, ok
look at the topi
linux_newbie2: right.  Sec
topic*
how do you mount cd images?
I'm trying to get Breezy Badger to play DVDs. Followed the directions on https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RestrictedFormats to no avail. After putting in the DVD nothing happens. After launching Totem, I try to Play DVD & get this error msg: "Failed to find mountpoint for device /dev/hdc in /etc/fstab". Any suggestions?
HymnToLife, how do i get it to post the topic again
HymnToLife, its so far back, i can't view it
!topic
MorbidHunger, " mount -o loop foo.iso /mnt/blahblah "
/topic
HymnToLife, ok
thats it?
i dont have to download anything?
nope
Intel extreme graphics 845 gv
the Kernel does the trick
HymnToLife, its working now
Mr: have the right driver intsalled?
ok
always read the topics ;)
dli, ok got all
i purchased some tv shows on dvd. i'd like to rip the commentary tracks only (i.e. no video) is there a way to do this?
dli,what i do next?
HymnToLife, i took the us out of all of them, but i'm still getting the same error
tagabasak_, okay, " mount "
ls
did you sudo apt-get update ?
so how would i be able to open up my documents through like terminal all my stuff is saved on like desktop but how would i open them im on ice lite so i have to use terminal
HymnToLife, http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14431
tagabasak_, do you see ,  /mnt/hda2/dev /mnt/hda2/proc in the output of " mount "?
HymnToLife, thats when i get that error
when i run apt-get update
hi there
dli, yep
i need some help because i'm getting mad
linux_newbie2:  The documentation I'm seeing doesn't really suggest a cure using grub
for me is impossible install a tar.gz
i do all good
linux_newbie2: tell me, what happens when you try to boot your machine now?
pastebin your new sources.list please
but ./configure doesnt work
atoponce: how would i be able to tell that
anyone?
know
tagabasak_, okay, in the previous terminal, in grub, " root (hd0,1) "
im so confused
Managu: It says could not boot the operating system
feryana: why are you installing from source
how do i unmount?
I want to install some dictionaries for open office and is a tar.gz
HymnToLife, http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14432
then i went to konsole entered the directory
MorbidHunger, umount /dev/devicenumber
MorbidHunger: umount
ok
but when I tipe ./configure
what is PQserivecs root?
just umount?
MorbidHunger: or umount /mount/point
says me no file or directory
MorbidHunger: umount, not unmount
linux_newbie2: this is going to sound silly, but I think you want to try reinstalling ubuntu
ok
thanx mate
dli, file system is ext2fs
HymnToLife, whats wrong
Mr: not sure how to 'see' what driver without reconfiguring the xserver
linux_newbie2: at the least, you'll probably get grub back
MorbidHunger: that bug is fixed in plan 9 ;)
hmmm
tagabasak_, now, " setup (hd0) "
hi guys, can anyone provide any information on setting my laptop up to dual-boot ubuntu and windows?
Managu: well, I have tried twice, with a Ubuntu CD I DLed today and with an Edubuntu 5.10 CD that has worked on other machines
RamyLaptop: did you install windows first and then ubuntu?
Managu: they both fail when installing the base system :(
well i have booted from the live CD and the resolution was fine
dli,done
tagabasak_, make sure grub was run right after "chroot"
RemyLaptop, did you install windows and then ubuntu?
dli, is houl rebbot?
tagabasak_, " quit "
so then, how I install a tar.gz???????? what I must do
tagabasak_, " exit "
linux_newbie2, sounds like your HD is not clean
linux_newbie2: when you try to boot, do you get anything other than a generic "could not load operating system" message?  Anything at all?  Does GRUB say soemthing?  Is there a disk error?
ManaguL: running the CD check says they both have a problem with a file on the disk, but I know the edubuntu one has worked on another machine
Mr: what version+
linux_newbie2, try formatting it clean
|Sivik| - I currently have ubuntu installed ( an no spare partitions), but i'm planning on going again completely from scratch...
tagabasak_, you may reboot now
?
I cn't see what's wrong, here's my sources.list if you want : http://fkraiem.no-ip.org/stuff/sources.list
5.10
dli, ok
when is dapper going to be released?
some one i installed it from
never
!dapper
**** News Flash **** Dapper has its own channel #ubuntu+1 please join there for dapper (the beta of the next release) configuration, install,  or other conversation, dapper will be in #ubuntu starting 1st of june :-) But not until than
i had the live DVD
Deedubb: june 1st
RemyLaptop, so you don't currently have windows installed?
because i see how to do it on the sites... but ./configure never work
Managu: before I did the fixmbr from the windows disk, GRUB gave an error 15
thank you
|Sivik| - no
linux_newbie2: oi, I remember error 15
dli,hope it works *__*
whoever does the ubotu bot, it should be "then" for the last word of that dapper statement ;)
linux_newbie2: lemme see.  Maybe lilo would be more useful to you here.  It's a lot less testy on install
how long does it take to mount an image?
Managu: fine by me
how can i screen capture in mplayer?
feryana: why are you trying to compile from source?
Managu, lilo is not used with ubuntu
yep
Anyone willing to help me out with a samba woe?
RemyLaptop, its eastist to install windows and then install ubuntu: the ubuntu grub will find the windows partition
mikebot: just a frame?
NytShade, whast the problem
i want to make a deb or something installable
amphi, yeah
Apostle^: fair enough, also not particularly relivant to our discussion ;-)
!grub
http://wiki.ubuntu.com/GrubHowto or https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows or troubleshooting grub: http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub.html#Troubleshooting
mikebot: use the x11 driver
Apostle: at this point I just want to get back to windows before I give Ubuntu another shot
thanks |Sivik|
mikebot: and then whatever you like, gimp for example
i purchased some tv shows on dvd. i'd like to rip the commentary tracks only (i.e. no video) is there a way to do this?
feryana, the question is, why are you doing that? isn't what you need in the ubuntu repositories?
amphi, someone told me to do "mplayer -vo x11", but i don't know whatto doa fter that
feryana, dpkg -i yourdebher.deb
Managu, i tell you this because if the person were to install lilo and then updated their kernel they would not have a working system
I've installed it and SWAT, but when I log into swat it doesn't give me any configuration options. As though I'm a guest.
mikebot: yes, that's what I'm saying
is a software unmounted on tar.gaz and i want to run that software
Hey there
another question, I've plugged in an external HDD, and it's recognised it, but as read only... how can I make it so I can write to it ?
amphi, but when i type that, it just gives me a list of commands...then what do i do?
feryana, what software is that?
Mr: try the vesa driver, althogh you won't be able to do anything graphic intensive
ooodi-0.68-i686-linux.tar.gz
mikebot: mplayer -vo x11 whatever
is a installed for dictionaries for open office
Apostle^: indeed, I'm somewhat familiar with the difference
how would i do that
i've downloaded like that
feryana: is there not a package for that?
amphi, i understand typing "mplayer -vo x11" in terminal...but now how do i get the screen i want into a jpg?
nop... just that file
linux_newbie2: lemme see.  Is there an /etc/lilo.conf on your current system?
NytShade,  the ubuntu packagtes proberly have it 'locked down' for security reasons - check the wiki/forums for what needs to be done to reenable full use of it.
|Sivik|, can you help?
dli,  yey got it now, i just have to edit my menu.lst  t_T
'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg'
I just what to install some spelling dictionaries for open office
tagabasak_, update-grub
and I just finded that
|Sivik|, thank you. I'll look again.
!pastebin
[pastebin]  http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/, a site for pasting long texts so you don't disrupt the channel - or install webboard in Gnome: http://www.gnomefiles.org/app.php?soft_id=1269
foo.png, there are many
i've installed the build-essential
but i can't do more
amphi, how in gimp..that's what i'm asking
Managu: yes
feryana: are the dictionaries not packaged?
linux_newbie2: oh, good.  Can you pastebin a copy for me ot look at?
quire IIRC
at least i don't find them
i just finded that one
is it a holiday in the US tomorrow ?
|Sivik|, is there a better way to serve files to windows pcs over the network?
mathieu_: nope
no
mathieu_: not that i know of
mathieu_: monday week
amphi thank you
dli,why im on Busybox
the monday after that
mathieu_: monday week is when Memorial Day is observed in the US
Managu: what is remembered?
29th of May
the veterans amphi
dli,it stops loading and promptind BusyBox
feryana: ah
amphi: That's a good question.  Like an idiot, I don't know the history of Memorial Day
yeah that is when will celebrate that we won the war
NytShade, not really
Managu: uh, having some kind of clipboard issue, it won't paste into the box :P
mathieu, no
so then, there is no way to install or pack a tar.gz file?
mathieu, its next monday we have a holiday
feryana: tar zxvf foo.tgz
Managu: nm
another question, I've plugged in an external HDD, and it's recognised it, but as read only... how can I make it so I can write to it ?
i have a radeon 7200 and i'm trying to get my monitor to display on tv? any help?
linux_newbie2: heh
NytShade, are you trying to get files from a windows box to a linux box?
for somereason its not mounted
i shall intalld daemon tools
Managu: http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/14433
ray_: have fun, ati is a bitch in linux
aste didn't work, but middle-click does...ok...
boy oh boy
not too good to hear...
linux_newbie2: sec, reading
|Sivik|, I'm setting up this ubuntu box as a testbed and a fileserver. I'd like to get it working as a fileserver before the end of the night :)
and what I must do with the files?
there is one oooodi.install
and others
NytShade, so your trying to access the files from the ubuntu box to the windows box?
dli, i got an alert it says that /dev/hdc2 doesnt exist. dorping to a shell
ray_: OTOH, that's an old card, so it should be well supported - radeontool might be of use to you
radeontool?
what I do with that?
ray_: radeontool
tagabasak_, it's /dev/hda2
a channel?
dli, what shoul i do?
how can i change vncserver's default window manager? i.e. switch from gnome to kde
|Sivik|, and vice versa.
ray_: no, a program - it's packaged; apt-cache show radeontool
tagabasak_, you can type 'e' to edit grub entries
linux_newbie2: add to the end 2 lines: "other=/dev/hda1" and "label=windows"
NytShade, to get files off of the ubuntu box, use a scp program in windows
ray_: actually, it has nothing to do with tv out, sorry ;)
linux_newbie2: then run "lilo" as root
heh, ok then
Managu: I believe my windows is on hda2
linux_newbie2: oh?  What's on hda1?
NytShade, and in ubuntu, make sure the windows firewall is off and then you should be able to use samba
Managu: I think GRUB lived there?  It's a small partition
dli,it stops loading, i cant login to gui.. becaus of the alerts. im on a shell now.
ray_: atitvout might be useful
linux_newbie2: you can run "fdisk -l" to be sure who's what, but if windows is on /dev/hda2, that's what you want in the "other" field
tagabasak_, reboot, change in grub
|Sivik|, not using any firewall software on any of the pc's in the home's network.
NytShade, yes, but is the normal windows firewall on?
ray_: that's what I was thinking of
|Sivik|, No
u guys know how to unrar something
thanks, amphi
where are the ipw2200 drivers located
dli, how could i do that?
!tell MorbidHunger about rar
windows fw only blocks/monitors incoming connections
NytShade, thats weird
kelvie: ipw2200.sf.net
here's a simple question hopefully
are they not in synaptic?
tagabasak_, boot livecd
amphi what I must do with the files inside ?
Managu: yeah, windows is on hda2
feryana: I have no idea
|Sivik|, how so? I shut it off ages ago.
KaosX, yes i know that, but hes trying to access the windows files from samba on the ubuntu box
dli,ok T_T
NytShade, i didn't say it was on
how do I keep my second hard drive (hdb1) mounted each time i reboot
NytShade, i just asked if it was on
kelvie: they're in the install IIRC - modprobe ipw2200 should work
ray_, you have to put an entry in /etc/fstab
ray_: edit /etc/fstab
ray_: stick it in fstab
NytShade, when you run samba, it should see the mshome network
=) damn beat me to it
Rug, i love you too
does anyone know if gentoo or actually kororaa have a synaptic type package system to install packages?
DBO: but atleast we are better then amphi
linux_newbie2: bit after my bedtime here, so I'm gonna be going shortly
NytShade, or whatever you currently have it named as long as your have the same network address and the same subnet mask for both computers
anyone know of any problems or issues running Dapper on an Opteron?
Rug: much ;) but then I'm on rural dialup
ojai: go to #ubuntu+1
nice excuse.
ojai: thats the dapper help channel
!dapper
**** News Flash **** Dapper has its own channel #ubuntu+1 please join there for dapper (the beta of the next release) configuration, install,  or other conversation, dapper will be in #ubuntu starting 1st of june :-) But not until than
join the club :)
Managu: /proc/misc: No entry for device-mapper found
Sivik: Yeah, already asked there -- not much feedback :)
Rug: excuse, perhaps, but hardly 'nice'
I have never heard of dialup lag affecting IRC
HymnToLife: ;)
still having trouble mounting
Managu: /dev/mapper/control: open failed: No suck device
Rug: it does if you do anything else
*such
so exactly what do i need to do to play windows media on ubuntu?
lol
Managu: Warning: '/proc/partitions' does nto match '/dev' directory structure
linux_newbie2: what's at the end?
now, just to be sure... it should be /dev/hdb1 and not /dev/hdb?
|Sivik|, they are both on the same workgroup and subnet.
does anybody have any ideas ?
Managu: Fatal: Trying to map files from unnamed device 0x000e (NFS/RAID mirror down?)
ray_: yes
thanks, rug
you guys are awesome
Take that back!
linux_newbie2: ok, well, seems that didn't work.  And I'm out of ideas.  Got that backup of your windows partition handy?
Rug: heh, I still have an old motorola 14.4 pcmcia modem somewhere
I am not!!!!
ha
Managu: oy
hi
NytShade, just because they have the same subnet doesn't mean they are on the same network
amphi: My first modem was a 300/1200 Switchable MANUAL "Pocket Modem" for the C64
where can I get a spanish dictionary for openoffice
I ran a BBS on that thing
NytShade, you have to verify that the network portion of the ip address's are the same
like the same probably first 3 parts of the ip address
NytShade, are you using a external ip and an internal ip?
grr im so confused
does ubuntu only support 1024X768 or is my graphics card not installed properly?
Rug: manual? acoustic coupler? ;)
rak_: you probably dont' have it install correctly
Managu: would the window bootloader be having issues because the windows parition is not first?
You would dial the number with the telephone in your hand, and when the other end picked up, you switched on the modem and entered ATA+ in the term
linux_newbie2, shouldn't
linux_newbie2: the things we've tried have kept running into the fact that linux doesn't know the mapping from bios drive numbers to logical drive numbers.  Solving that might help.  You might also try using cfdisk to make sure that the windows partition is set "active" or "Bootable", or something
amphi: not quite that bad, but VERY close!
heh
is there any other way to mount cd images?
dli, what should i do now?
Managu: ah, it is not!
MorbidHunger: mount -o loop -t iso9660 foo.iso /mount/point
ray_: yes it does support it.
Managu: the linux partition is set as boot
Where can I download a spanish dictionary for openoffice????????????
|Sivik|, they are both using addresses assigned by the router's DHCP service.
HymnToLife, can you repost the url for your current soucres.list
linux_newbie2: should be an easy fix
thats not working
NytShade, then they should be on the same network
tagabasak_, correct your /etc/fstab /boot/grub/menu.lst on hdd
NytShade, are you running the GUI for samba?
Managu: should I unmark the Linux partition as bootable as well?
http://fkraiem.no-ip.org/stuff/sources.list
|Sivik|, there is a gui?
ray_: edit the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file and input the resolutions you want.
linux_newbie2: yup.  Though I don't think you can have 2 bootable partitions (I could well be wrong)
rug, i almost missed that.
MorbidHunger: that is the way to do it; perhaps the image is corrupt? what does 'file whatever.iso' say?
dli,do i have to mount again?
NytShade, are you trying ti run samba in command line?
how can i start a vnc session with kde as a wm instead of gnome
atitvout supports radeon 7200?
It seems that ubuntu is a little slow is there any way to speed this system up?
tagabasak_, yes
thats why its easier to tie samba to an interface rather than a network
I belive so, yes.
ray_: maybe ;)
|Sivik|, I belive so, yes.
nathansnook: define slow.  (slow, how?).  There might be a way to address your issue
okay, i'm about to install it
sage: mount -V                 : print version
       mount -h                 : print this help
       mount                    : list mounted filesystems
       mount -l                 : idem, including volume labels
So far the informational part. Next the mounting.
The command is `mount [-t fstype]  something somewhere'.
NytShade, thats the hard way to do it
Details found in /etc/fstab may be omitted.
       mount -a [-t|-O]  ...     : mount all stuff from /etc/fstab
how do i run it once it's installed?
       mount device             : mount device at the known place
       mount directory          : mount known device here
       mount -t type dev dir    : ordinary mount command
The Gnome X GUI interface
Note that one does not really mount a device, one mounts
!tell morbidhunger about paste
a filesystem (of the given type) found on the device.
!paste
Please don't flood the channel! For best results use the pastebin at http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/ and tell people the URL
One can also mount an already visible directory tree elsewhere:
Managu: Wrote partition table, but re-read table failed.  Reboot to update table.  Toggle bootable flag of the current partition.
|Sivik|, easy way being?
       mount --bind olddir newdir
or move a subtree:
       mount --move olddir newdir
Also firefox is a little slow.
A device can be given by name, say /dev/hda1 or /dev/cdrom,
NytShade, kde or gnome?
or by label, using  -L label  or by uuid, using  -U uuid .
Other options: [-nfFrsvw]  [-o options]  [-p passwdfd] .
ray_: the manpage says "atitvout - ATI Rage/Radeon TV Out configuration program"
For many more details, say  man 8 mount
Where can I download a spanish dictionary for openoffice????? Please!!!!!
linux_newbie: worth a shot
thats what it says
id burn it, but i have no cdrs
MorbidHunger: Stop flodding the channel!
i have a removeable drive that keeps getting mounted read only, what can i do
ok ok
|Sivik|, um default...
someone asked a question
i answered
I have just had ubuntu 5.10 for about a day or two and my girlfriend says it slower than fedora core
Where can I get the original sources.list for Ubuntu Dapper Beta?  I seemed to have messed mine up.
Managu: well, I am on LiveCD, so just reboot?
!paste
Please don't flood the channel! For best results use the pastebin at http://paste.ubuntu-nl.org/ and tell people the URL
manpage? sorry, i'm very new to this obviously
linux_newbie2: yup
whereeee, http://www.handango.com/PlatformProductDetail.jsp?siteId=1&platformId=9&N=96805%2093246&productId=44362&R=44362
ok
linux_newbie2: don't forget to remove the CD, or properly change your bios, etc
MorbidHunger: perhaps you didn't specify an existing directory as a mount point?
Hoy how can i get skype downloaded even when i dont have  windos
NytShade, if you go to places and then network servers, you should be able to see the mshome thingy
ray_: man atitvout (assuming you installed it)
duco: there is a linux build of skype